|regulation|service_type|urls|regulation_text
0|§3.280|Aircraft|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=280|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Affiliate--A member of a group of entities in which  a controlling interest is owned by a common owner or owners, either  corporate or noncorporate, or by one or more of the member entities.  (2) Agricultural aircraft operation--The operation  of an aircraft licensed by the FAA under 14 Code of Federal Regulations,  Part 137. Agricultural aircraft operations include crop dusting, pollination,  and seeding.  (3) Agricultural use--This term includes, but is not  limited to, the following activities: cultivating the soil, producing  crops for human food, animal feed, or planting seed or for the production  of fibers; floriculture, viticulture, and horticulture; raising or  keeping livestock; raising or keeping exotic animals for the production  of human food or of fiber, leather, pelts, or other tangible products  having a commercial value; planting cover crops or leaving land idle  for the purpose of participating in a governmental program, provided  the land is not used for residential purposes or a purpose inconsistent  with agricultural use; and planting cover crops or leaving land idle  in conjunction with normal crop or livestock rotation procedure. The  term also includes the use of land to produce or harvest logs and  posts for the use in constructing or repairing fences, pens, barns,  or other agricultural improvements on adjacent qualified open-space  land having the same owner and devoted to a different agricultural  use. The term also includes the use of land for wildlife management.  The term also includes the use of land to raise or keep bees for pollination  or for the production of human food or other tangible products having  a commercial value, provided that the land used is not less than 5  or more than 20 acres.  (4) Aircraft--A fixed-wing, heavier-than-air craft  that is operated by a pilot from within the craft, is driven by propeller  or jet and is supported by the dynamic reaction of the air against  its wings; a helicopter; or an airplane flight simulation training  device approved by the FAA under Appendices A and B, 14 Code of Federal  Regulations, Part 60. The term does not include balloons, gliders,  rockets, missiles, or unmanned aerial vehicles.  (5) Certificated or licensed carrier--A person authorized  by the FAA to operate an aircraft to transport persons or property  in compliance with the certification and operations specifications  requirements of 14 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 121, 125, 133,  or 135. Letters of authorization, certificates of inspection, and  airworthiness certificates are not appropriate evidence of authority  to operate as a certificated or licensed carrier.  (6) Component part--Tangible personal property that  is intended to be permanently affixed to, and become a part of, an  aircraft; is necessary to the normal operations of the aircraft, or  is required by FAA regulations; and is secured or attached to the  aircraft. The term includes tangible personal property necessary to  the normal operations of the aircraft that can be removed temporarily  from the aircraft for servicing, such as engines, seats, radar equipment,  and other electronic devices used for navigational or communications  purposes, and air cargo containers, food carts, fire extinguishers,  survival rafts, and emergency evacuation slides. Items such as pillows,  blankets, trays, ice for drinks, kitchenware, and toilet articles  are not component parts.  (7) Consumable supplies--Tangible personal property  that is used by a service provider to repair, remodel, maintain, or  restore tangible personal property belonging to another; is not transferred  into the care, custody, or control of the purchaser of the service;  and, having been used once for its intended purpose, is completely  used up or destroyed. Examples of consumable supplies include, but  are not limited to, canned air used to remove dust from equipment  and solvents used to clean equipment parts. (8) Exotic animals--Livestock and fowl that are not  indigenous to Texas and are defined as exotic livestock or exotic  fowl by Agriculture Code, §161.001(a) (Definitions). Examples  include, but are not limited to, nilgai antelope, blackbuck antelope,  axis deer, fallow deer, sika deer, aoudad, ostriches, and emus.  (9) Extended warranty or service policy--A contract  sold to the purchaser of tangible personal property for an amount  in addition to the charge for the tangible personal property, or sold  to an owner of tangible personal property, to extend the terms of  the manufacture\'s written warranty or provide a warranty in addition  to or in place of the manufacture\'s written warranty.  (10) FAA--Federal Aviation Administration, an agency  of the United States Department of Transportation.  (11) Incorporated materials--Tangible personal property  that is attached or affixed to, and becomes a part of, an aircraft,  aircraft engine, or component part in such a manner that the property  loses its distinct identity as separate tangible personal property.  (12) Livestock--Horses, mules, donkeys, llamas, alpacas,  and animal life of a kind that ordinarily constitutes food for human  consumption. The term livestock does not include wildlife or pets.  (13) Lump-sum contract--A written agreement in which  the agreed price is one lump-sum amount and in which the charge for  incorporated materials is not separated from the charge for skill  and labor. Separated invoices or billings issued to the customer will  not change a written lump-sum contract into a separated contract unless  the terms of the contract require separated invoices or billings.  (14) Maintain--To perform maintenance.  (15) Maintenance--Work performed on operational and  functioning tangible personal property that is necessary to sustain  or support safe, efficient, and continuous operation of the tangible  personal property, or is necessary to keep the tangible personal property  in good working order by preventing decline, failure, lapse, or deterioration.  (16) Manufacturer\'s written warranty--A manufacturer\'s  guarantee made for no additional charge to the purchaser of an item  of tangible personal property that the item is operable and will remain  operable for a specified period of time.  (17) Operational control--This term has the meaning  assigned by FAA regulations and includes the exercise of authority  over initiating, conducting, or terminating a flight.  (18) Predator control--A form of wildlife and exotic  animal management regulated by the Texas Department of Parks and Wildlife  under Parks and Wildlife Code, Chapter 43, Subchapter G (Permits to  Manage Wildlife and Exotic Animals from Aircraft) used to protect  or aid in the administration or protection of land, water, wildlife,  livestock, domesticated animals, human life, or crops. Feral hog eradication  using an aircraft is one form of predator control.  (19) Qualified flight instruction--Training recognized  by the FAA that is designed to lead to a pilot certificate or rating  issued by the FAA, or is otherwise required by rule or regulation  of the FAA, and that is conducted under the direct or general supervision  of a flight instructor certified by the FAA. Qualified flight instruction  includes FAA-required check flights, maintenance flights, and test  flights, but does not include demonstration flights for marketing  purposes or training in aerobatic maneuvers.  (20) Remodel--To modify or remake tangible personal  property belonging to another in a similar but different manner, or  to change the style, shape, or form of tangible personal property  belonging to another, without causing a loss of its identity or without  causing it to operate in a new or different manner. Remodeling does  not include processing.  (21) Repair--To mend or restore to working order or  operating condition tangible personal property that was broken, damaged,  worn, defective, or malfunctioning.  (22) Restore--To return tangible personal property  that is still operational and functional, but that has faded, declined,  or deteriorated, to its former or original state.  (23) Sale for resale--The sale, lease, or rental of  an aircraft to a person who acquires the aircraft for the purpose  of leasing, renting, or reselling the aircraft to another person,  or for the purpose of transferring operational control of the aircraft  to one or more persons pursuant to one or more written lease agreements,  in exchange for a fixed, variable, or periodic consideration, whether  or not the consideration is in the form of a cash payment, in the  United States of America or a possession or territory of the United  States of America or in the United Mexican States in the form or condition  in which the aircraft is acquired.  (24) Separated contract--A written agreement in which  the agreed price is divided into a separately stated charge for incorporated  materials and a separately stated charge for skill and labor. An agreement  is a separated contract if the charge for incorporated materials and  the charge for labor are separately stated on an invoice or billing  that, according to the terms of the contract, is deemed to be a part  of the contract. Adding the separated charge for incorporated materials  and the separated charge for labor together to give a lump-sum total  does not transform a separated contract into a lump-sum contract.  An aircraft completion, repair, remodeling, maintenance, or restoration  contract that separates the charge for incorporated materials from  the charge for labor is a separated contract even if the charge for  labor is zero.  (25) Service provider--A person who repairs, remodels,  maintains, or restores tangible personal property belonging to another.  (26) Wildlife--Animals, other than insects, that normally  live in a state of nature and are not ordinarily domesticated.  (b) Sales tax.  (1) The sale, lease, or rental of an aircraft, aircraft  engine, or component part in Texas is the sale, lease, or rental of  tangible personal property, and is subject to sales tax, unless otherwise  exempt under Tax Code, Chapter 151 (Limited Sales, Excise, and Use  Tax) or Chapter 163 (Sales and Use Taxation of Aircraft). The lease  or rental of an aircraft complete with pilot or crew for a single  charge is a nontaxable transportation service, rather than the lease  or rental of an aircraft, even when the charges for the aircraft and  the pilot or crew are separately stated. For more information about  leases and rentals, refer to §3.294 of this title (relating to  Rental and Lease of Tangible Personal Property).  (2) Sales tax is due on the total sales, lease, or  rental price of the aircraft, aircraft engine, or component part.  The total sales, lease, or rental price includes separately stated  charges for any service or expense connected with the sale, lease,  or rental, including transportation or delivery charges. The total  sales, lease, or rental price does not include separately stated cash  discounts or the value of any tangible personal property taken as  a trade-in by the seller in the regular course of business in lieu  of all or part of the price of the aircraft. For more information  on determining the taxable sales price of an item of tangible personal  property, refer to Tax Code, §151.007 (""Sales Price"" or ""Receipts"")  and §3.294 of this title.  (c) Use tax.  (1) General rule. Use tax is due on the use, storage,  or other consumption in this state of an aircraft purchased, leased,  or rented outside of Texas and brought into Texas to be used in Texas.  For more information about the application of the use tax to aircraft  engines and component parts, refer to §3.346 of this title (relating  to Use Tax).  (2) Presumption of purchase for use in Texas. An aircraft  purchased, leased, or rented outside of Texas and then brought into  Texas by a purchaser is presumed to have been purchased from a seller  for use in Texas and is subject to Texas use tax. An aircraft that  is brought into Texas by a person who did not purchase the aircraft  directly from a seller is not presumed to have been purchased for  use in Texas.  (3) Predominant use outside of Texas.  (A) An aircraft purchased, leased, or rented outside  of Texas and then brought into Texas is not subject to Texas use tax  if the aircraft is predominantly used outside of Texas for a period  of one year beginning on the later of:  (i) the date the aircraft was acquired, by purchase,  lease, rental, or otherwise, by the person bringing the aircraft into  Texas; or  (ii) the date the aircraft was substantially complete  in the condition for its intended use and conducted its first flight  for the carriage of persons or property.  (B) For purposes of this subsection, an aircraft is  predominantly used outside of this state if more than 50% of its total  departures are from locations outside of Texas.  (C) The owner or operator of the aircraft must maintain  records sufficient to show each of the aircraft\'s departures. The  comptroller may examine all records maintained on any aircraft brought  into Texas, including logs, to determine the percentage of the aircraft\'s  total departures that were made from locations in Texas.  (4) Completing, repairing, remodeling, or restoring  aircraft in Texas. An aircraft purchased, leased, or rented outside  of Texas and then brought into Texas for the sole purpose of completing,  repairing, remodeling, or restoring the aircraft is not subject to  Texas use tax.  (A) Completion, repair, remodeling, or restoration  includes flights solely for troubleshooting, testing, or training,  and flights between service locations under an FAA-issued ferry permit.  Cont\'d...', '(B) Any use of the aircraft for business or pleasure  travel during the time that the aircraft is being completed, repaired,  remodeled, or restored means the aircraft was not brought into Texas  for the sole purpose of completion, repairs, remodeling, or restoration,  and Texas use tax may be due on the aircraft.  (C) The owner or operator of the aircraft must maintain  records sufficient to show all uses of the aircraft within Texas.  The comptroller may examine all records maintained on the aircraft,  including logs, to determine the actual use of the aircraft in Texas.  (5) Use tax credit. The purchaser or lessee of an aircraft  is allowed to claim a credit against Texas use tax due on the use  of the aircraft for any legally imposed sales or use tax due and paid  on the sale or use of the item by the purchaser or lessee of the item  to another state or any political subdivision of another state. For  information on taking a credit for tax paid to another state, refer  to §3.338 of this title (relating to Multistate Tax Credits and  Allowance of Credit for Tax Paid to Suppliers).  (d) Related parties.  (1) The sale, lease, rental, or other transaction between  a person and a member, owner, or affiliate of the person involving  an aircraft that would not be subject to tax, or would qualify for  an exemption from tax if the transaction were between unrelated persons  remains not subject to tax or exempt from tax to the same extent as  if the transaction were between unrelated persons.  (2) Except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection,  the use of an aircraft by an affiliate of the purchaser of the aircraft,  or an owner or member of either the purchaser or its affiliate, is  not subject to tax if the purchaser paid Texas sales or use tax on  the purchase of the aircraft, or the purchase of the aircraft was  exempt from Texas sales or use tax.  (3) The exemption in paragraph (2) of this subsection  does not apply if the purchase of the aircraft was exempt as:  (A) a sale for resale; or  (B) an occasional sale, unless the owner, member, affiliate,  or the owner or member of the affiliate, who is leasing or renting  the aircraft could have purchased the aircraft as an occasional sale.  For information on the occasional sale exemption, see subsection (j)  of this section.  (e) Tax exemptions specific to aircraft. In addition  to the other exemptions from tax provided under Tax Code, Chapter  151, the following tax exemptions apply specifically to the sale,  lease, rental, and use in Texas of aircraft, aircraft engines, and  component parts. A person selling, leasing, or renting an aircraft,  aircraft engine, or component part may accept a properly completed  exemption certificate from the purchaser in lieu of collecting Texas  sales and use tax at the time of the transaction. A purchaser claiming  a sales tax exemption under this subsection may provide the seller  with a properly completed exemption certificate at the time of the  transaction. A purchaser who does not claim the exemption at the time  of the transaction may subsequently provide documentation to the comptroller  to prove that the exemption applies, except as provided in paragraph  (4) of this subsection. For more information, refer to §3.287  of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates).  (1) Certificated or licensed carriers.  (A) Sales and use tax is not due on the sale, lease,  or rental of an aircraft to a certificated or licensed carrier.  (B) Sales and use tax is not due on the sale, lease,  or rental of component parts of an aircraft to a certificated or licensed  carrier.  (C) Sales and use tax is not due on the sale or use  of tangible personal property that is necessary for the normal operations  of, and is pumped, poured, or otherwise placed in, an aircraft owned  or operated by a certificated or licensed carrier.  (D) Sales and use tax is due on the sale, lease, or  rental of machinery, tools, and equipment that support the overall  operation of a certificated or licensed carrier, such as baggage loading  or handling equipment, reservation or booking machinery and equipment,  garbage and other waste disposal equipment, and office supplies and  equipment, unless otherwise exempt under Tax Code, Chapter 151.  (E) Sales tax is not due on the sale of tangible personal  property transferred to a certificated or licensed carrier in Texas,  if the carrier, using its own facilities, ships the items to a point  outside of Texas under a bill of lading and the items are purchased  for use by the carrier in the conduct of its business as a certificated  or licensed carrier solely outside Texas.  (2) Flight schools, instructors, and students.  (A) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale, lease,  or rental of an aircraft to a person who:  (i) holds a current flight school or flight instructor  certificate issued by the FAA;  (ii) holds a current sales and use tax permit issued  under Tax Code, Chapter 151; and  (iii) uses the aircraft to provide qualified flight  instruction.  (B) Any use of the aircraft other than that described  in this paragraph is subject to tax as a divergent use under subsection  (f) of this section, unless otherwise exempt under Tax Code, Chapter  151.  (C) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale or use  of component parts of an aircraft owned or operated by a flight school  or flight instructor to provide qualified flight instruction.  (D) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale or use  of tangible personal property that is necessary for the normal operations  of, and is pumped, poured, or otherwise placed in, an aircraft owned  or operated by a flight school or flight instructor to provide qualified  flight instruction.  (E) A student enrolled in a program providing qualified  flight instruction may claim an exemption from sales tax on the short-term  hourly rental of an aircraft for qualified flight instruction, including  solo flights and other flights. When completing an exemption certificate  claiming this sales tax exemption, the student must identify the flight  school by name and address or, if the student is not enrolled in a  flight school program, the student must identify the student\'s flight  instructor and the instructor\'s address. The student must also retain  copies of written tests and instructor\'s endorsements. Without evidence  that the student is in pursuit of a FAA-certified pilot certificate  or flight rating, aircraft rentals are subject to sales tax.  (3) Foreign governments. Sales tax is not due on the  sale, lease, or rental of an aircraft to a foreign government. Sales  tax is due on the sale or lease of component parts or materials incorporated  in Texas into an aircraft owned by a foreign government, unless otherwise  exempt under Tax Code, Chapter 151. Refer to subsection (g) of this  section for information concerning the repair, remodeling, maintenance,  and restoration of aircraft, aircraft engines, and component parts.  (4) Fly-away exemption.  (A) Sales tax is not due on the sale or lease of an  aircraft in Texas to a person for use and registration in another  state or nation before any use in Texas other than:  (i) completing, repairing, remodeling, maintaining,  or restoring the aircraft in Texas, including necessary flights for  troubleshooting, testing, or flights between service locations under  an FAA-issued ferry permit; or  (ii) flight training in the aircraft.  (B) Any use of the aircraft in Texas other than that  described in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph before the aircraft  is flown out of this state for use and registration in another state  or nation will result in the loss of the exemption.  (C) The subsequent use of an aircraft in Texas after  the aircraft has left Texas will not subject the aircraft to tax on  the purchase price if the aircraft is predominantly used outside of  Texas for a period of one year beginning on the later of:  (i) the date the aircraft was purchased or leased by  the person bringing the aircraft into Texas; or  (ii) the date the aircraft was substantially complete  in the condition for its intended use and conducted its first flight  for the carriage of persons or property.  (D) For purposes of this subsection, an aircraft is  predominantly used outside of Texas if more than 50% of its total  departures are from locations outside of Texas.  (E) The owner or operator of the aircraft must maintain  records sufficient to show each of the aircraft\'s departures. The  comptroller may examine all records maintained on any aircraft brought  into Texas, including logs, to determine the percentage of the aircraft\'s  total departures that were made from locations in Texas.  (F) The fly-away exemption does not apply to the short-term  hourly rental of an aircraft in Texas, even if the person renting  the aircraft intends to use the aircraft in another state.  (G) Exemption certificate required.  (i) A purchaser claiming the fly-away exemption under  this paragraph must provide the seller with a properly completed Texas  Aircraft Exemption Certificate Out-of-State Registration and Use,  Form 01-907, its electronic equivalent, or any form promulgated by  the comptroller that succeeds such form. The seller may only accept  the certificate if the seller lacks actual knowledge that the claimed  exemption is invalid. Within 30 days of the sale of the aircraft,  a copy of the completed certificate signed by both the seller and  the purchaser must be provided to the Comptroller of Public Accounts,  Business Activity Research Team, P.O. Box 13003, Austin, Texas, 78711-3003.  (ii) By signing the certificate, the purchaser authorizes  the comptroller to provide a copy of the certificate to the state  or nation in which the aircraft is intended to be used and registered.  (iii) Issuing an invalid certificate is a misdemeanor  punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 in addition to the assessment  of tax and, when applicable, penalty and interest on the purchase  price of the aircraft.  (5) Agricultural use.  (A) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale, lease,  or rental of an aircraft for use exclusively in connection with an  agricultural use, as defined in this section, when used for:  (i) predator control;  (ii) wildlife or livestock capture;  (iii) wildlife or livestock surveys;  (iv) census counts of wildlife or livestock;  (v) animal or plant health inspection services; or  (vi) agricultural aircraft operations, such as crop  dusting, pollination, or seeding.  (B) Component parts and necessary supplies for aircraft  used exclusively in agricultural aircraft operations.  (i) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale or use  of component parts of an aircraft used exclusively in agricultural  aircraft operations.  (ii) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale or use  of tangible personal property that is necessary for the normal operations  of, and is pumped, poured, or otherwise placed in, an aircraft used  exclusively in agricultural aircraft operations.  (iii) Exemption certificate required. A person claiming  the exemption under this subparagraph must have a valid Texas Agricultural  and Timber Exemption Registration Number issued by the comptroller,  and must issue a properly completed Texas Agricultural Sales and Use  Tax Exemption Certification, Form 01-924, its electronic equivalent,  or any form promulgated by the comptroller that succeeds such form.  (iv) This exemption does not include the sale or use  of firearms, ammunition, or other equipment or tangible personal property  used to perform predator control, wildlife census counts, or any other  activity not included in the definition of agricultural aircraft operation.  (C) Use of an aircraft is considered to be ""for use  exclusively in connection with an agricultural use"" if 95% of the  use of the aircraft is for a purpose described by subparagraph (A)  of this paragraph. Travel to a location to perform a service described  by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph will not disqualify the sale,  lease, or rental of an aircraft from the exemption, and will not be  regarded as divergent use.  (D) Selling the use of a gunner\'s seat on an aircraft  that is exempt under this paragraph to a person participating in aerial  wildlife management, as authorized by Parks and Wildlife Code, §43.1075  (Using Helicopters to Take Certain Animals), will not result in a  loss of the exemption. The sale of the gunner seat is subject to sales  tax as a taxable amusement service under Tax Code, §151.0028  (Amusement Services) and §3.298 of this title (relating to Amusement  Services).  (E) A person who claims an exemption under this paragraph  must maintain and make available to the comptroller upon request flight  records for all uses of the aircraft, as well as any other records  requested by the comptroller, such as Aerial Wildlife Management Permits  issued under Parks and Wildlife Code, Chapter 43, Subchapter G. Failure  to maintain adequate records may result in loss of the exemption.  Cont\'d...', ""(6) Fractional ownership operations. Sales and use  tax is not due on the sale, lease, or rental of an aircraft operated  as part of a fractional ownership program under 14 Code of Federal  Regulations Part 91, Subpart K-Fractional Ownership Operations. Sales  tax is due on the sale or lease of component parts or materials incorporated  into an aircraft that is part of an aircraft fractional ownership  operation, unless otherwise exempt under Tax Code, Chapter 151.  (f) Divergent use.  (1) Exempt aircraft, aircraft engines, and component  parts. Sales and use tax is due when an aircraft, aircraft engine,  or component part sold, leased, or rented tax-free under a properly  completed exemption certificate is subsequently put to a taxable use  other than the use allowed under the certificate. For more information,  refer to §3.287 of this title.  (2) Sales for resale. Sales and use tax is due when  an aircraft engine or component part sold, leased, or rented tax-free  under a properly completed resale certificate is subsequently put  to a taxable use other than the use allowed under the certificate.  For more information, refer to §3.285 of this title (relating  to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale). Sales and use tax is not  due on the divergent use of an aircraft that is purchased for resale.  (3) Agricultural use and agricultural aircraft operations.  No divergent use may be made of an aircraft exempted under subsection  (e)(5) of this section, relating to agricultural use, without a total  loss of the exemption. Certain limited uses identified in subsection  (e)(5)(C) of this section do not constitute divergent use of an agricultural  aircraft. No divergent use of component parts or necessary tangible  personal property exempted under subsection (e)(5)(B) of this section,  relating to agricultural aircraft operations, can be made without  a total loss of that exemption.  (g) Repair, remodeling, maintenance, restoration, and  completion.  (1) Labor to complete, repair, remodel, maintain, or  restore aircraft in Texas is not subject to sales tax. The sale or  use of materials incorporated into an aircraft, aircraft engine, or  component part being completed, repaired, remodeled, maintained, or  restored in Texas is subject to sales and use tax as provided in paragraph  (2) of this subsection, unless otherwise exempt.  (2) Tax responsibilities of service providers.  (A) Incorporated materials. Whether the service provider  owes tax on the purchase of materials that will become incorporated  materials as part of the completion, repair, remodeling, maintenance,  or restoration of an aircraft, aircraft engine, or component part  depends upon whether the service provider is operating under a lump-sum  or separated contract.  (i) Separated contracts. If the services are performed  under a separated contract, the service provider is regarded as the  seller of the incorporated materials. If the service provider has  a sales and use tax permit, the service provider may issue a properly  completed resale certificate to the supplier in lieu of paying sales  tax on the purchase of the incorporated materials. The service provider  must then collect sales tax from the customer on either the agreed  contract price for the incorporated materials, or the amount the service  provider paid for the incorporated materials, whichever amount is  greater. The service provider may also use incorporated materials  removed from an inventory of items upon which sales or use tax was  paid at the time of purchase. In such a case, sales tax is to be collected  from the customer on the agreed contract price of the incorporated  materials as though the incorporated materials had been purchased  tax-free with a resale certificate.  (ii) Lump-sum contracts. If the services are performed  under a lump-sum contract, the service provider is the ultimate consumer  of all incorporated materials. The service provider may not collect  sales tax from the customer. The service provider must pay sales or  use tax to the suppliers of the incorporated materials at the time  of purchase, unless the service provider works under both lump-sum  and separated contracts and uses incorporated materials removed from  a valid tax-free inventory that were originally purchased tax-free  by use of a resale certificate. In such a case, the service provider  incurs a tax liability based upon the purchase price of the incorporated  materials and must report and remit the tax to the comptroller. The  service provider owes sales or use tax on the purchase of incorporated  materials even when the services are performed for a customer that  is exempt from tax under Tax Code, Chapter 151.  (B) Tools, equipment, and consumable supplies. Sales  and use tax is due on the purchase, lease, or rental of tools, equipment,  and consumable supplies used by the service provider but not incorporated  into the aircraft, aircraft engine, or component part at the time  of the service, regardless of the type of contract used to perform  the service, and the service provider may not collect sales or use  tax from the customer on any charges for such items.  (3) Exemption for certificated or licensed carriers,  flight schools or instructors, and persons operating aircraft for  an agricultural use.  (A) The total charge for services to complete, repair,  remodel, maintain, or restore aircraft, aircraft engines, or component  parts by or for a certificated or licensed carrier, a flight school  or instructor providing qualified flight instruction, or a person  operating aircraft for an agricultural use is exempt from sales and  use tax, whether the charge is lump-sum or separately stated.  (B) Sales and use tax is not due on the sale, lease,  or rental of machinery, tools, supplies, and equipment used directly  and exclusively in the repair, remodeling, maintenance, or restoration  of aircraft, aircraft engines, or component parts by or for a certificated  or licensed carrier, a flight school or a flight instructor providing  qualified flight instruction, or person conducting an agricultural  aircraft operation, provided the purchaser issues the seller a properly  completed exemption certificate. This includes equipment, such as  battery chargers and diagnostic equipment, used to sustain or support  safe and continuous operations and to keep the aircraft in good working  order by preventing its decline, failure, lapse, or deterioration.  (4) Aircraft used outside Texas. The following guidelines  apply to aircraft brought into Texas by out-of-state owners or operators  for completion, repair, remodeling, or restoration.  (A) Separated contracts. Sales or use tax is not due  on the separately stated charge for labor to complete, repair, remodel,  maintain, or restore an aircraft, aircraft engine, or component part  performed under a separated contract. The cost of incorporated materials  is:  (i) subject to sales tax when the owner or operator  takes delivery of the aircraft in Texas; or  (ii) not subject to sales tax when the aircraft is  delivered to an out-of-state location by the service provider.  (B) Lump-sum contracts. Sales tax is not due by the  owner or operator of an aircraft completed, repaired, remodeled, maintained,  or restored under a lump-sum contract. The service provider owes sales  or use tax on the incorporated materials, whether the service provider  delivers the aircraft out of state or the owner or operator takes  delivery of the aircraft in Texas.  (5) The repair, remodeling, maintenance, or restoration  of component parts removed from and returned to an aircraft pursuant  to the repair, remodeling, maintenance, or restoration of that aircraft  is to be treated in accordance with the provisions of this subsection.  The repair, remodeling, maintenance, or restoration of a component  part removed from an aircraft that is not returned to the aircraft  is subject to the provisions of §3.292 of this title (relating  to Repair, Remodeling, Maintenance, and Restoration of Tangible Personal  Property).  (h) Jet turbine aircraft engines.  (1) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale, lease,  or rental of the following items used in electrochemical plating or  a similar process by persons overhauling, retrofitting, or repairing  jet turbine aircraft engines and their component parts:  (A) machinery, equipment, or replacement parts or accessories  with a useful life in excess of six months; and  (B) supplies, including aluminum oxide, nitric acid,  and sodium cyanide.  (2) A person claiming an exemption under paragraph  (1) of this subsection must maintain documentation sufficient to show  that no exclusion under Tax Code, §151.318 (Property Used in  Manufacturing) applies. Also refer to §3.300 of this title (relating  to Manufacturing; Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating; Processing).  (3) Sales tax is not due on the sale of electricity  or natural gas used in the off-wing processing, overhaul, or repair  of a jet turbine engine or its parts for a certificated or licensed  carrier. For more information, refer to §3.295 of this title  (relating to Natural Gas and Electricity).  (i) Warranties.  (1) Manufacturer's written warranty or recall campaign.  (A) Sales or use tax is not due on the use of incorporated  materials or services furnished by the manufacturer to repair an aircraft,  aircraft engine, or component part under a manufacturer's written  warranty or recall campaign.  (B) Records must be kept by a service provider showing  that the incorporated materials or services were used in repairing  an item under a manufacturer's written warranty or recall campaign.  (C) A service provider purchasing incorporated materials  used in a repair under a manufacturer's written warranty or recall  campaign may issue a properly completed exemption certificate to the  seller in lieu of paying tax on the purchase.  (2) Extended warranties and service policies.  (A) Sales tax is not due on the sale of an extended  warranty or service policy that covers an aircraft, aircraft engine,  or component part.  (B) A service provider performing services under an  extended warranty or service policy must collect sales or use tax  on the sale or use of incorporated materials as required under subsection  (g)(2)(A) of this section, unless the aircraft, aircraft engine, or  component part is owned by a certificated or licensed carrier, a flight  school or instructor providing qualified flight instruction, or an  agricultural aircraft operation.  (j) Occasional sales. The purchase of an aircraft,  aircraft engine, or component part is exempt from sales and use tax  if the purchase meets the definition of an occasional sale provided  by §3.316 of this title (relating to Occasional Sales; Transfers  Without Change in Ownership; Sales by Senior Citizens' Organizations;  Sales by University and College Student Organizations; and Sales by  Nonprofit Animal Shelters).  (k) Sales for resale.  (1) A person selling, leasing, or renting an aircraft,  aircraft engine, or component part may accept a properly completed  and signed resale certificate from the purchaser at the time of sale  in lieu of collecting tax on the sale if the person does not know,  and does not have reason to know, that the sale is not a sale for  resale. For more information on the good faith acceptance of a resale  certificate, refer to §3.285 of this title.  (2) A person purchasing, leasing, or renting an aircraft  in a transaction that meets the definition of a sale for resale may  provide the seller or lessor with a properly completed resale certificate  if the person:  (A) holds a valid sales and use tax permit at the time  of the transaction; and  (B) does not intend to exclusively lease the aircraft  together with a crew or pilot.  (3) A person purchasing, leasing, or renting an aircraft  in a transaction that meets the definition of a sale for resale who  does not provide the seller or lessor with a properly completed resale  certificate at the time of the transaction may subsequently provide  documentation to the comptroller to prove that the resale exemption  applies.  (4) The purchase of an aircraft for lease or rental  to another does not qualify as a sale for resale unless more than  50% of the aircraft's departures during the one year period beginning  on the date of purchase are made under the operational control of  a person other than the purchaser, pursuant to one or more written  lease agreements, in exchange for consideration. For purposes of this  subsection, consideration is not required to be in the form of a cash  payment, and may be fixed, variable, or periodic.  (l) Local tax. Local sales and use taxes, including  taxes imposed by a city, county, transit authority, or special purpose  district, apply to aircraft in the same manner as any other tangible  personal property.  (1) Sales consummated in Texas. Generally, local sales  taxes are allocated to the local taxing jurisdictions in which the  seller's place of business is located, and the seller must collect  the local sales tax, without regard to whether the aircraft is actually  delivered to, or intended for use in, a Texas location in a different  local taxing jurisdiction. If the seller does not collect the applicable  local tax, the purchaser must accrue and remit local tax to the comptroller.  (2) Sales consummated outside of Texas. When an aircraft  is purchased or leased outside of Texas and brought into Texas, local  use tax is due based on the local taxing jurisdictions in which the  aircraft is first stored or used. If the seller does not collect the  applicable local tax, the purchaser must accrue and remit to the comptroller  any local use tax due.  (3) For more information regarding the local tax collection  and reporting responsibilities of sellers and purchasers, refer to §3.334  of this title (relating to Local Sales and Use Tax)."
1|§3.281|Records Required; Information Required|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=281|(a) Persons who must keep records. (1) Sellers of taxable items and purchasers who store,  use, or consume taxable items in this state shall keep books, papers,  and records in the form that the comptroller requires. (2) Examples of persons who are required to keep records  include the following: (A) a person who sells, leases, or rents tangible personal  property; (B) a person who performs taxable labor, such as fabricating,  processing, and producing tangible personal property; (C) a person who performs taxable services that are  listed in Tax Code, §151.0101; or (D) a person who purchases taxable items. (b) Records required. (1) Records must reflect the total gross receipts from  all sales, rentals, leases, taxable services, and taxable labor. Examples  include, but are not limited to, receipts, shipping manifests, invoices,  and other pertinent papers from each rental, lease, taxable service,  and each taxable labor transaction that occurs during each reporting  period. (2) Records must reflect total purchases of taxable  items. Examples include, but are not limited to, receipts, shipping  manifests, invoices, and other pertinent papers of all purchases of  taxable items from every source that are made during each reporting  period. (3) Additional records must be kept to substantiate  any claimed deductions or exclusions authorized by law. Examples include,  but are not limited to, receipts, shipping manifests, invoices, exemption  certificates, resale certificates, and other pertinent papers that  substantiate each claimed deduction or exclusion. (4) Records must reflect all sales and use tax, and  any money represented to be sales and use tax, received or collected  on each sale, rental, lease, or service transaction. Examples include,  but are not limited to, sales receipts, invoices, or other equivalent  records, including electronically stored images of such documents,  showing all sales and use tax received or collected during each reporting  period. (5) Records may be written, kept on microfilm, stored  on data processing equipment, or may be in any form that the comptroller  may readily examine. (c) Failure to keep or to provide accurate records.  If a person who is required to keep records under subsection (a) of  this section fails to keep accurate contemporaneous records of gross  receipts, gross purchases, deductions, exclusions, and taxes received  or collected, or if a person fails to produce such records when requested  by the comptroller during an audit or investigation, the comptroller  may take actions that include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) estimate the person's tax liability based on any  available information that includes, but is not limited to, records  of suppliers; (2) use a sample and projection auditing method to  calculate the person's tax liability. For further information, see §3.282  of this title (relating to Auditing Taxpayer Records); (3) suspend the person's permit; (4) file criminal charges as provided in §3.305  of this title (relating to Criminal Offenses and Penalties); and (5) take other action as authorized by law to enforce  compliance with the Tax Code. (d) Information required. (1) The comptroller may require any person subject  to the Limited Sales and Use Tax Act to furnish information necessary  to: (A) identify any person applying for a permit or any  person required to file a return; (B) determine the amount of bond required to commence  or continue business; (C) determine possible successor liability; and (D) determine the amount of tax the person is required  to remit. (2) The information required may include, but is not  limited to, the following: (A) name of the actual owner of the business; (B) name of each partner in a partnership; (C) names of officers and directors of corporations  and other organizations; (D) all trade names under which the owner operates; (E) mailing address and actual locations of all business  outlets; (F) license numbers, title numbers, and other identification  of business vehicles; (G) identification numbers assigned by other governmental  agencies, including social security numbers, federal employers identification  numbers, and drivers license numbers; (H) names of suppliers, banks, and other persons with  whom the taxpayer transacts business; (I) names and last known addresses of former owners  of the business. (e) Retention. A person who is required to keep records  under subsection (a) of this section must keep those records for a  minimum of four years from the date on which the record is made, and  throughout any period in which any tax, penalty, or interest may be  assessed, collected, or refunded by the comptroller or in which an  administrative hearing or judicial proceeding is pending, unless the  comptroller authorizes in writing a shorter retention period. A person  must keep exemption and resale certificates for a minimum of four  years following the completion of the last sale that is covered by  the certificate. (f) The comptroller, the attorney general, or the authorized  representative of either of them may examine, copy, and photograph  any records of any person who is required to keep records under subsection  (a) of this section, to verify the accuracy of any return or to determine  any tax liability. However, during an audit, an auditor for the comptroller  should obtain permission from a taxpayer to copy or photograph records  that are proprietary in nature, unless the comptroller reasonably  believes that the taxpayer may have committed fraud or taken action  to evade taxes. If the taxpayer does not grant the auditor permission  to copy or photograph records, and the comptroller believes that the  records are necessary to determine the tax liability of the taxpayer,  then the comptroller may obtain records through other means under  authority granted by Tax Code, §111.0043.
2|§3.282|Auditing Taxpayer Records|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=282|(a) The following words and terms, when used in this  section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly  indicates otherwise. (1) Managed audit--A taxpayer self-review and analysis  of invoices, checks, accounting records, or other documents or information  to determine a taxpayer's liability for tax under Tax Code, Chapter  151, as allowed under a written agreement with the comptroller authorizing  a managed audit as described in subsection (f) of this section. (2) Percentage-based reporting method--A method by  which a direct payment permit holder may be authorized to categorize  purchase transactions according to standards specified in a letter  of authorization issued under the provisions set out in subsection  (g) of this section, reviews an agreed-on sample of invoices in those  categories to determine the percentage of taxable transactions, and  uses that percentage to calculate the amount of tax to be reported. (b) The comptroller or an authorized representative  of the comptroller may audit a taxpayer's accounts and records at  any time during regular business hours at the discretion of the comptroller  or the comptroller's authorized agent or representative. (c) The comptroller may use a detailed auditing procedure  or a sample and projection auditing method to determine tax liability.  Sampling procedure may include manual sampling techniques and computer-assisted  audit techniques, whichever produce the most accurate results in the  most efficient manner. (d) A sample and projection auditing method is appropriate  if: (1) the taxpayer's records are so detailed, complex,  or voluminous that an audit of all detailed records would be unreasonable  or impractical; (2) the taxpayer's records are inadequate or insufficient,  so that a competent audit for the period in question is not otherwise  possible; or (3) the cost of an audit of all detailed records to  the taxpayer or to the state will be unreasonable in relation to the  benefits derived, and sampling procedures will produce a reasonable  result. (e) Before using a sample technique to establish a  tax liability, the comptroller must notify the taxpayer in writing  of the sampling procedure to be used. (f) The comptroller may authorize taxpayers that meet  certain requirements to perform managed audits. (1) A taxpayer who wishes to participate in a managed  audit must request authorization from the comptroller's office to  conduct a managed audit under this section. Authorization will only  be granted as part of a written agreement between the taxpayer and  the comptroller's office. The agreement must: (A) be signed by an authorized representative of the  comptroller and the taxpayer; and (B) specify the period to be audited and the procedure  to be followed. (2) In determining whether to authorize a managed audit,  the comptroller may consider, in addition to other factors the comptroller  considers relevant: (A) the taxpayer's history of tax compliance, including: (i) timely filing of all reports; (ii) timely payment of all taxes and fees due the state; (iii) prior audit history; (iv) delinquency in other taxes; (v) correction of problems identified; (vi) collection of tax that was not remitted; and (vii) whether a penalty waiver had been denied on prior  occasions and the reason for denial; (B) the amount of time and resources the taxpayer has  available to dedicate to the audit; (C) the extent, availability, and completeness of the  taxpayer's records for the period to be covered by the managed audit; (D) the taxpayer's ability to pay any expected liability;  and (E) the size and sophistication of the taxpayer. (3) The decision to authorize or not authorize a managed  audit rests solely with the comptroller. (4) A managed audit may be limited to certain categories  of liability under Tax Code, Chapter 151, including tax on: (A) sales of one or more types of taxable items; (B) purchases of assets; (C) purchases of expense items; (D) purchases under a direct payment permit; or (E) any other category specified in an agreement authorized  by this section. (5) Before the audit is finalized, the comptroller  may examine records that the comptroller determines are necessary  to verify the results. (6) Unless the audit or information reviewed by the  comptroller under this subsection discloses fraud or willful evasion  of the tax, the comptroller may not assess a penalty and may waive  all or part of the interest that would otherwise accrue on any amount  identified to be due in a managed audit. This subsection does not  apply to any amount collected by the taxpayer that was a tax or represented  to be a tax but was not remitted to this state. (7) Except as provided by applicable law, the taxpayer  is entitled to a refund of any tax overpayment disclosed by a managed  audit. See §3.325 of this title (relating to Refunds and Payments  Under Protest). (g) The comptroller may authorize direct payment permit  holders that meet certain requirements to report tax on purchases  using a percentage-based reporting method. (1) A holder of a direct payment permit may request  authorization from the comptroller to use a percentage-based reporting  method. The authorized percentage must be used for a three-year period  specified by the comptroller, unless the authorization is revoked  by the comptroller. (2) The authorization to report under this subsection  may be revoked if the comptroller determines that the percentage being  used is no longer representative because of a change in the taxpayer's  business operations or in law, including a change in the interpretation  of a law or rule. For example, two decisions from the Court of Appeals  changed the list of items that may be purchased tax free by manufacturers.  Subsequently the legislature passed two bills that significantly changed  the tax responsibilities of manufacturers. Each of these changes affected  a manufacturer's percentage used to report taxable purchases. (3) The decision of the comptroller to deny or revoke  authorization under this section is not subject to appeal. (4) When authorizing reporting under this section,  the comptroller may categorize transactions by dollar amount, by type  of taxable item purchased, by the purpose for which the taxable item  will be used, or by other standards appropriate to the taxpayer's  operations. (h) A taxpayer who holds a permit issued under Tax  Code, Chapter 151, who has paid Texas tax in error on purchases of  taxable items, whether sales tax was remitted directly to this state  or to a retailer holding a permit under Tax Code, Chapter 151, may  compute the amount of overpayment by use of a projection based on  a sampling of transactions. (1) The sampling method must be one that has been approved  by the comptroller. (2) The taxpayer must record the method by which the  projection and computation were performed and must make available,  on request by the comptroller, information explaining the method employed  and the records on which the projection and computation were based. (i) A taxpayer who holds a permit issued under Tax  Code, Chapter 151, may obtain reimbursement for amounts determined  to have been overpaid by taking a credit on one or more sales tax  returns or by filing a claim for refund with the comptroller within  the limitation period specified by Tax Code, Chapter 111. See §3.325  of this title. A taxpayer is required to keep contemporaneous records  to substantiate and enable verification of the taxpayer's credit or  refund claim for a minimum of four years from the date on which the  record is made, and throughout any period in which any tax, penalty,  or interest may be assessed, collected, or refunded by the comptroller,  or in which an administrative hearing or judicial proceeding is pending,  unless the comptroller authorizes in writing a shorter retention period. (1) A taxpayer may take a credit by amending the sales  tax return for the period in which the tax was originally paid. (2) If a taxpayer chooses to take the credit by claiming  a refund, the claim must identify the period in which the tax was  originally paid. (3) A taxpayer who claims a credit or submits a refund  request for local taxes must identify the period in which the local  tax was paid and the local taxing jurisdiction to which the local  tax was reported. (4) Interest will be paid on tax amounts found to be  erroneously paid for reports due on or after January 1, 2000, whether  claimed on a request for refund or claimed in an audit. See also §3.325  of this title and Tax Code, §111.064. (j) If records are inadequate to accurately reflect  the business operations of the taxpayer, the auditor will determine  the best information available and base the audit report on that information.  See §3.281 of this title (relating to Records Required; Information  Required) for information on proper records. (k) Resale and exemption certificates. (1) Resale and exemption certificates should be available  at the time of the audit. All certificates obtained on or after the  date the comptroller's auditor actually begins work on the audit at  the seller's place of business or on the seller's records after the  entrance conference are subject to verification. All incomplete certificates  will be disallowed regardless of when they were obtained. (2) The seller has 60 days from the date written notice  is received by the seller from the comptroller in which to deliver  the certificates to the comptroller. Written notice shall be given  by the comptroller upon the filing of a petition for redetermination  or claim for refund. For the purposes of this section, written notice  given by mail is presumed to have been received by the seller within  three business days from the date of deposit in the custody of the  United States Postal Service. The seller may overcome the presumption  by submitting proof from the United States Postal Service or by other  competent evidence showing a later delivery date. If the seller is  not in possession of the certificates within 60 days from the date  written notice is given by the comptroller that certificates pertaining  to periods or transactions specified in the notice are required, any  deductions claimed which require resale or exemption certificates  will be disallowed. Exemptions claimed by those certificates acquired  during this 60-day period will be subject to independent verification  by the comptroller before the deductions will be allowed. Certificates  delivered after the 60-day period will not be accepted. See §3.285  of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale); §3.287  of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates); and §3.288  of this title (relating to Direct Payment Procedures and Qualifications). (3) When a 60-day letter has been received, a resale  or exemption certificate is the only acceptable proof that a taxable  item was purchased for resale or qualifies for exemption. (l) Both sellers and purchasers are subject to audit  and assessment of tax on any transactions on which tax was due but  has not been paid. (m) The comptroller may proceed against either the  seller or purchaser, or against both, until the tax, penalty, and  interest have been paid.
3|§3.283|Bartering Clubs and Exchanges|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=283|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this subchapter, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Barter--To exchange taxable items without using money. (2) Barter exchange--Any organization, association, or group of persons maintaining facilities for the purpose of bringing purchasers and sellers together for the purpose of bartering. (3) Trade units--The medium of exchange which is debited and credited to members' accounts when bartering. (b) The barter of a taxable item is the sale of a taxable item even though trade units are accepted by the seller instead of money. (c) The seller must collect and remit sales tax on the sales price of a taxable item. (d) Barter exchanges which maintain show or sales rooms for the purpose of bartering taxable items are sellers. See §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller's Responsibilities). (e) Dues and service fees charged by the barter exchanges to members for becoming a member of the exchange and for maintaining records on barter transactions are not taxable.
4|§3.284|Drugs, Medicines, Medical Equipment, and Devices (Tax Code §151.313)|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=284|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Appliance or device--An instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, contrivance, implant, chemical, or other similar or related product that does not achieve its primary intended purposes through chemical action within or on the body, and that is not dependent upon being metabolized for the achievement of its primary intended purposes. (2) Brace--Any appliance or device that is used on or attached to the human body, and that gives rigidity or support for the purpose of correcting a physical ailment or defect. (3) Corrective lenses--Any appliance or device that is worn to correct or aid defective eyesight, such as eyeglasses, contact lenses, or other visual aids that an ophthalmologist or optometrist dispenses or prescribes. (4) Dental device--An artificial replacement of one or more teeth or a dental appliance worn on the teeth to correct irregularities of growth or position. For the purposes of this section, the term dental device does not include toothbrushes, toothpaste, dental floss, mouth mirrors, or other devices used to prevent cavities or plaque build-up or removal. (5) Dietary supplement--A product that: (A) contains one or more vitamins, minerals, herbs, amino acids, or substances to increase caloric intake; (B) is not represented as a food or the sole item of a meal or the diet; and (C) is labeled or is required to be labeled ""dietary supplement"" or ""supplement."" (6) Drug or medicine--A product that: (A) is intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, illness, injury, or pain; (B) is applied to the human body, or that humans ingest or inhale; (C) is not an appliance or device; and (D) is not food; or (E) is labeled with a drug facts panel in accordance with federal Food and Drug Administration regulations. (7) Food--Material, usually of plant or animal origin, that contains or consists of essential nutrients and is intended for human ingestion: (A) for taste or aroma; or (B) to satisfy the appetite, hunger, or thirst. (8) Hearing aid--Any appliance or device worn to correct or aid defective hearing. The term also includes an audio loop used by a person who is deaf. (9) Hypodermic needle--A hollow needle adapted for use with hypodermic syringes. (10) Hypodermic syringe--A small syringe with a hollow needle adapted for use in removing or injecting material beneath the skin. (11) Ileostomy, colostomy, and ileal bladder appliance--An appliance or device that is surgically implanted or formed to assist the human body in the elimination of natural waste. (12) Orthopedic appliance--Any appliance or device designed specifically for use in the correction or prevention of human deformities, defects, or chronic diseases of the skeleton, joints, or spine. (13) Prosthetic device--An item that is artificial and replaces a missing part of the body, performs the function of a vital organ or appendage of the human body, or is permanently implanted in the body. Examples of prosthetic devices are heart-lung pumps, nasal gastric and gastrointestinal devices, ureteral stents, urethral stents, and artificial kidney machines, and related components and supplies. (14) Therapeutic appliance or device--An appliance or device that is designed to alleviate pain or for use during the treatment or cure of human sickness, disease, suffering, or deformity. (15) Wound care dressing--An item that absorbs wound drainage, protects healing tissue, maintains a moist or dry wound environment (as appropriate), or prevents bacterial contamination. (b) Drugs and medicines. (1) Insulin that is sold with or without a prescription is exempt. (2) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of drugs or medicines that are prescribed or dispensed for humans or animals on the oral or written prescription of licensed practitioners of the healing arts. Sales tax is due on the sale of all other nonprescription drugs and medicines, purchased for use in the treatment of animals, and the retailer must collect tax from the purchaser on such sales. (3) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of non-prescription drugs or medicines. A product is presumed to be a drug or medicine for sales tax purposes if it is labeled or required to be labeled with a ""Drug Facts"" panel pursuant to the regulations of the federal Food and Drug Administration. (4) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of wound care dressings. (c) Dietary supplements. Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of dietary supplements. (d) Medical equipment. (1) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale, lease, or rental of medical equipment meeting the definition of a brace, corrective lens, hearing aid, orthopedic appliance, prosthetic device, or dental device. Sales tax is not due on replacement parts designed specifically for such devices and appliances. With the exception of corrective lenses, a prescription is not required. (2) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of ileostomy, colostomy, or ileal bladder appliances, related supplies or replacement parts that are designed specifically for such appliances. (3) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of hypodermic syringes and hypodermic needles used for medical purposes. (4) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of blood glucose monitoring strips. (5) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale, lease, or rental of hospital beds or their replacement parts. A hospital bed is the type of bed used in a hospital for rest, recuperation, and treatment. A hospital bed does not include an operating table, delivery table, examination table, stretcher, or gurney. A prescription is not required. (6) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale, lease, or rental of the following items when used by the deaf. An exemption certificate is not required for the purchase, rental, or lease of these items: (A) hearing aids; (B) specialized printing or signaling equipment that the deaf use for the purpose of enabling communication by ordinary telephone, including all materials, paper, and printing ribbons that are used in that equipment; (C) an appliance or device, such as a light signal, that is used to adapt items such as telecommunication devices for the deaf (TDD), telephones, doorbells, and smoke alarms; and (D) adaptive devices or adaptive software for computers that deaf persons use. (7) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale, lease, or rental of the following items when used by the legally blind. An exemption certificate is not required for the purchase, rental, or lease of these items: (A) a braille wristwatch, braillewriter, braille paper; and (B) braille electronic equipment that connects to computer equipment, along with the necessary adaptive devices and computer software. (8) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale, lease, or rental of the following items when used by the legally blind, if an exemption certificate is provided to the seller: (A) a slate and stylus; (B) print enlarger; (C) light probe; (D) magnifier; (E) white cane; (F) talking clock; (G) hardware and software that are necessary to adapt a computer for a legally blind person to use; and (H) harness for guide dog. (9) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale, lease, or rental of intravenous systems (IV systems) used in the treatment of humans. The exemption includes related supplies and replacement parts. Examples of IV system components and supplies include access ports, adapters, bags and bottles, cannulae, cassettes, catheters, clamps, connectors, drip chambers, extension sets, filters, in-line ports, luer locks, needles, poles, pumps and batteries, spikes, tubing, valves, and volumetric chambers. A purchaser must give an exemption certificate to the seller stating that the components and related supplies are for IV systems used in the treatment of humans. (10) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of eating utensils, such as spoons, forks, or knives, that are designed to facilitate independent eating and purchased for use by an individual who cannot eat independently with conventional utensils because of injury, disease, physical or mental disability, or advanced age. A purchaser must give an exemption certificate to the seller to claim the exemption. (11) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale, lease, or rental of therapeutic appliances, devices, and related supplies specifically designed for those products when sold, leased, or rented to individuals under a prescription of a licensed practitioner of the healing arts. (A) An individual purchasing, leasing, or renting therapeutic appliances, devices, and related supplies under a prescription must either provide the seller a written prescription or allow the seller to receive the prescription directly from the licensed practitioner of the healing arts. The seller may exempt the sale, lease, or rental by keeping a copy of the individual's prescription in the seller's records. An exemption certificate from the purchaser is not required. (B) A hot tub, spa, or similar appliance qualifies as a therapeutic appliance when prescribed for the purchaser by a licensed practitioner of the healing arts. The patient must provide the seller of the hot tub, spa, or similar appliance with a prescription, an exemption certificate, and a signed statement on letterhead from the licensed practitioner. The signed statement should specify the medical requirements for the hot tub, spa, or similar appliance. (C) Health care providers, such as doctors, clinics, hospitals, nursing homes, or other institutions providing health care or medical services to individuals owe tax on therapeutic appliances, devices, and related supplies they use in providing nontaxable health care and medical services. Unless the health care provider qualifies as an exempt organization under Tax Code, §151.309 or §151.310, sales or use tax must be paid by the health care provider on the purchase, lease, or rental of all therapeutic appliances, devices, and related supplies."
5|§3.285|Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=285|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Equipment--Any apparatus, device, or simple machine  used to perform a service.  (2) Federal government--The government of the United  States of America and its unincorporated agencies and instrumentalities,  including all parts of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches  and all independent boards, commissions, and agencies of the United  States government unless otherwise designated in this section. (3) Integral part--An essential element without which  the whole would not be complete. One taxable item is an integral part  of a second item if the taxable item is necessary, as opposed to desirable,  for the completion of the second item, and if the second item could  not be provided as a whole without the taxable item. (4) Internet hosting service--The provision to an unrelated  user of access over the Internet to computer services using property  that is owned or leased and managed by the service provider and on  which the unrelated user may store or process the user\'s own data  or use software that is owned, licensed, or leased by the unrelated  user or service provider. The term does not include telecommunications  services as defined in §3.344 of this title (relating to Telecommunications  Services). (5) Machinery--All power-operated machines.  (6) Mexico--Within the geographical limits of the United  Mexican States.  (7) Purchaser--A person who is in the business of selling,  leasing, or renting taxable items.  (8) Seller--Every retailer, wholesaler, distributor,  manufacturer, or any other person who sells, leases, rents, or transfers  ownership of tangible personal property or performs taxable services  in this state for consideration. Specific types of sellers, such as  direct sales organizations, pawnbrokers, and auctioneers, are further  defined in §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller\'s and Purchaser\'s  Responsibilities, including Nexus, Permits, Returns and Reporting  Periods, and Collection and Exemption Rules). (9) Taxable item--Tangible personal property and taxable  services. Except as otherwise provided by Tax Code, Chapter 151, the  sale or use of a taxable item in an electronic form instead of on  physical media does not alter the item\'s tax status. (10) Tax-free inventory--A stock of tangible personal  property purchased tax-free for resale, whether from out-of-state  or by issuing a properly completed resale certificate, by a purchaser  who, at the time of purchase: (A) holds a valid Texas sales and use tax permit; (B) makes sales of taxable items in the regular course  of business; and (C) does not know whether the tangible personal property  will be resold in the normal course of business or used in the performance  of a service. (11) United States--Within the geographical limits  of the United States of America or within the territories and possessions  of the United States of America.  (b) Sale for resale. (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (3) - (6) of this  subsection, each of the following is a sale for resale:  (A) the sale of a taxable item to a purchaser who acquires  the taxable item for the purpose of reselling it with or as a taxable  item in the United States or Mexico in the normal course of business:  (i) in the form or condition in which it is acquired;  or  (ii) as an attachment to or as an integral part of  another taxable item; (B) the sale of tangible personal property to a purchaser  who acquires the property for the sole purpose of leasing or renting  it in the United States or Mexico in the normal course of business  to another person, but not if incidental to the leasing or renting  of real estate, as described in §3.294(k) of this title (relating  to Rental and Lease of Tangible Personal Property); (C) the sale of tangible personal property to a purchaser  who acquires the property for the purpose of transferring the property  to a customer in the United States or Mexico as an integral part of  a taxable service;  (D) the sale of a taxable service performed on tangible  personal property that the purchaser of the service holds for sale,  lease, or rental; (E) the sale of tangible personal property to a purchaser  who acquires the tangible personal property for the purpose of transferring  it as an integral part of performing a contract, or a subcontract  of a contract, with the federal government only if the purchaser: (i) allocates and bills to the contract the cost of  the tangible personal property as a direct or indirect cost; and  (ii) transfers title to the tangible personal property  to the federal government under the contract or subcontract and applicable  federal acquisition regulations; (F) the sale of a wireless voice communication device,  such as a cellular telephone, to a purchaser who acquires the device  for the purpose of transferring the device as an integral part of  a taxable telecommunication service when the purchase of the service  is a condition for receiving the device, regardless of whether there  is a separate charge for the device or whether the purchaser is the  provider of the taxable service. See §3.344 of this title (relating  to Telecommunications Services) for information about telecommunication  services); and  (G) the sale of a computer program to a provider of  Internet hosting services who acquires the computer program from an  unrelated vendor for the purpose of selling the right to use the computer  program to an unrelated user of the provider\'s Internet hosting services  in the normal course of business and in the form or condition in which  the provider acquired the computer program, without regard to whether  the provider transfers care, custody, and control of the computer  program to the unrelated user. The performance by the provider of  routine maintenance of the computer program that is recommended or  required by the unrelated vendor of the computer program does not  affect the application of this subsection. For purposes of this subsection,  the purchase of the computer program by the provider qualifies as  a sale for resale only if:  (i) the provider offers the unrelated user a selection  of computer programs that are available to the public for purchase  directly from an unrelated vendor; (ii) the provider executes a written contract with  the unrelated user that specifies the name of the computer program  sold to the unrelated user and includes a charge to the unrelated  user for computing hardware;  (iii) the unrelated user purchases the right to use  the computer program from the provider through the acquisition of  a license; and (iv) the provider does not retain the right to use  the computer program under that license. (2) To qualify as a sale for resale, the taxable item  must be acquired for the purpose of selling, leasing, or renting it  in the regular course of business or for the purpose of transferring  it as an integral part of a taxable service performed in the regular  course of business.  (3) A sale for resale does not include the sale of  internal or external wrapping, packing, or packaging supplies to a  purchaser who acquires the supplies for use in wrapping, packing,  or packaging tangible personal property, or in the performance of  a service, for the purpose of furthering the sale of the tangible  personal property or the service. See §3.314 of this title (relating  to Wrapping, Packing, Packaging Supplies, Containers, Labels, Tags,  Export Packers, and Stevedoring Materials and Supplies).  (4) A sale for resale does not include the sale of  tangible personal property or a taxable service to a purchaser who  acquires the property or service for the purpose of performing a service  that is not taxed under this chapter, regardless of whether title  transfers to the service provider\'s customer, unless the tangible  personal property or taxable service is purchased for the purpose  of reselling it to the United States in a contract, or a subcontract  of a contract, with any branch of the Department of Defense, Department  of Homeland Security, Department of Energy, National Aeronautics and  Space Administration, Central Intelligence Agency, National Security  Agency, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or National  Reconnaissance Office to the extent allocated and billed to the contract  with the federal government. (5) A sale for resale does not include the sale of  a taxable item to a purchaser who acquires the taxable item for the  purpose of reselling or transferring the taxable item outside the  territorial limits of the United States or Mexico. Refer to §3.323  of this title (relating to Imports and Exports).  (6) Tangible personal property used to perform a taxable  service is not considered resold unless the care, custody, and control  of the tangible personal property is transferred to the purchaser  of the service. The care, custody, and control of tangible personal  property is transferred to the purchaser of the service when the purchaser  has primary possession of the tangible personal property. (A) Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C)  of this paragraph, to have primary possession, the purchaser or the  purchaser\'s designee must have:  (i) physical possession of the tangible personal property  off of the premises of the service provider;  (ii) a contractual duty to care for the tangible personal  property. At a minimum, the contract must prohibit the purchaser from  damaging the tangible personal property or impose liability if the  purchaser damages the tangible personal property; and  (iii) a superior right to use the tangible personal  property for a contractually specified period of time.  (B) The purchaser may have primary possession of tangible  personal property if the purchaser or the purchaser\'s designee has  physical possession of the tangible personal property and directly  consumes the tangible personal property during the provision of the  taxable service. Property is considered consumed if it can no longer  be used for its intended purpose in the normal course of business  or is not retained or reusable by the service provider. (C) A purchaser may have primary possession of a computer  program if the purchaser acquires a license to use the computer program  from the service provider and the service provider does not retain  the right to use the computer program under that license. (7) A person performing services taxable under Tax  Code, Chapter 151 is the consumer of machinery and equipment used  by the person in performing the services. A person performing a taxable  service is not using the machinery or equipment in performing the  service if the person has transferred primary possession, as that  term is described in paragraph (6) of this subsection, of the machinery  or equipment to the purchaser of the service.  (8) Aircraft. See §3.280 of this title (relating  to Aircraft) for the definition of ""sale for resale"" as it applies  to aircraft.  (c) Issuance and acceptance of resale certificates.  (1) A sale for resale as defined in subsection (b)  of this section is not taxable. (2) Who may issue a resale certificate.  (A) In general, a purchaser who holds a Texas sales  and use tax permit may issue a resale certificate instead of paying  tax at the time of purchase of a taxable item that the purchaser intends  to resell, lease, rent, or transfer as an integral part of a taxable  service in the normal course of business. A purchaser may also issue  a resale certificate instead of paying tax at the time of purchase  of a taxable item that the purchaser intends to maintain in a valid  tax-free inventory, if the purchaser does not know at the time of  purchase whether the item will be resold or used in the performance  of a service. The purchaser must collect, report, and remit tax to  the comptroller as required by §3.286 of this title when the  purchaser sells, leases, or rents taxable items.  (B) A purchaser may not issue a resale certificate  in lieu of paying tax on the purchase of a taxable item, including  tangible personal property to maintain in a valid tax-free inventory,  that the purchaser knows, at the time of purchase, will be used or  consumed by the purchaser.  (3) Accepting a resale certificate.  (A) All gross receipts of a seller are presumed subject  to sales or use tax unless a properly completed resale or exemption  certificate is accepted by the seller. A properly completed resale  certificate contains the information required by subsection (g) of  this section. See also §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption  Certificates). (B) A seller does not owe tax on a sale, lease, or  rental of a taxable item if the seller accepts a properly completed  resale certificate in good faith. A resale certificate is deemed to  be accepted in good faith if:  (i) the resale certificate is accepted at or before  the time of the transaction;  (ii) the resale certificate is properly completed,  meaning that all of the information required by subsection (g) of  this section is legible; and  Cont\'d...', ""(iii) the seller does not know, and does not have reason  to know, that the sale is not a sale for resale. It is the seller's  responsibility to be familiar with Texas sales tax law as it applies  to the seller's business and to take notice of the information provided  by the purchaser on the resale certificate. For example, a jewelry  seller should know that a resale certificate from a landscaping service  is invalid because a landscaping service is not in the business of  reselling jewelry.  (C) The seller should obtain a properly executed resale  certificate at the time the taxable transaction occurs. All certificates  obtained on or after the date the comptroller's auditor actually begins  work on the audit at the seller's place of business or on the seller's  records after the entrance conference are subject to verification.  All incomplete certificates will be disallowed regardless of when  they were obtained. The seller has 60 days from the date written notice  is received by the seller from the comptroller in which to deliver  the certificates to the comptroller. Written notice shall be given  by the comptroller upon the filing of a petition for redetermination  or claim for refund. For the purposes of this section, written notice  given by mail is presumed to have been received by the seller within  three business days from the date of deposit in the custody of the  United States Postal Service. The seller may overcome the presumption  by submitting proof from the United States Postal Service or by other  competent evidence showing a later delivery date. Any certificates  delivered to the comptroller during the 60-day period will be subject  to independent verification by the comptroller before any deductions  will be allowed. Certificates delivered after the 60-day period will  not be accepted and the deduction will not be granted. See §3.282  of this title (relating to Auditing Taxpayer Records) and §3.286  of this title. (D) Resale certificates are subject to the provisions  of §3.281 of this title (relating to Records Required; Information  Required). A seller is required to keep resale certificates for a  minimum of four years from the date on which the sale is made and  throughout any period in which any tax, penalty, or interest may be  assessed, collected, or refunded by the comptroller or in which an  administrative hearing or judicial proceeding is pending. (4) Blanket resale certificate. A purchaser may issue  to a seller a blanket resale certificate describing the general nature  of the taxable items purchased for resale. The seller may rely on  the blanket certificate until it is revoked in writing. (5) Bulk commodities. A resale certificate is not required  to be issued by a broker or dealer that buys and sells only raw commodities  in bulk, such as natural gas, raw cotton bales, or raw aluminum, from  producers or other commodity brokers or dealers solely for resale  in the normal course of business. However, if requested by the seller,  a properly completed resale certificate, absent a sales tax permit  number, may be issued by the purchaser of such raw commodities even  if the purchaser does not hold a sales and use tax permit. (d) Retailers outside Texas. (1) A seller in Texas may accept a resale certificate  in lieu of tax from a retailer located outside Texas who purchases  taxable items for resale in the United States or Mexico in a transaction  that is a sale for resale, as defined in subsection (b) of this section. (2) The resale certificate must show the signature  and address of the purchaser, the date of the sale, the state in which  the purchaser intends to resell the item, the sales tax permit number  or the registration number assigned to the purchaser by the state  in which the purchaser is authorized to do business or a statement  that the purchaser is not required to be permitted in the state in  which the purchaser is authorized to do business. Mexican retailers  who purchase taxable items for resale must show their Federal Taxpayers  Registry (RFC) identification number for Mexico on the resale certificate  and give a copy of their Mexican Registration Form to the Texas seller.  An invoice describing the taxable item purchased and showing the exact  street address or office address from which the taxable item will  be resold must be attached to the resale certificate. The resale certificate  must also state the type business engaged in by the purchaser and  the type items sold in the regular course of business. A resale certificate  may be accepted from the out-of-state retailer even if the Texas retailer  ships or delivers the taxable item directly to a recipient located  inside Texas. (3) The Texas retailer is not responsible for determining  whether the out-of-state retailer is required to hold a Texas sales  and use tax permit or to enter a Texas permit number on the resale  certificate. (4) Foreign purchasers, other than purchasers from  Mexico, who are not engaged in business in Texas and do not hold a  Texas sales and use tax permit, may issue a properly completed resale  certificate, as described in paragraph (2) of this subsection, in  lieu of paying tax on the purchase of taxable items for sale in the  normal course of business when the items are delivered or shipped  to a location outside of Texas but within the United States or Mexico.  (5) An out-of-state or foreign purchaser who acquires  goods or services from a Texas seller for resale in Texas should refer  to §3.286 of this title for information on their responsibilities.  (6) A purchaser, whether from Texas, Mexico, or another  foreign country, may not issue a resale certificate for taxable items  purchased for resale outside the United States or Mexico. See subsection  (b)(5) of this section. Purchasers who purchase taxable items in Texas  for sale outside the United States or Mexico must comply with the  requirements of §3.323 of this title to claim exemption from  the Texas sales tax. (e) Taxable use of items purchased for resale; items  removed from tax-free inventory. (1) Divergent use; paying tax on fair market rental  value. When a taxable item is removed from a valid tax-free inventory  for use in Texas, Texas sales tax is due. When a taxable item purchased  under a resale certificate is used for any purpose other than retention,  demonstration, or display while holding it for sale, lease, or rental,  or for transfer as an integral part of a taxable service, the purchaser  is liable for sales tax based on the value of the taxable item for  the period of time used. (A) The value of tangible personal property is the  fair market rental value of the tangible personal property. The fair  market rental value is the amount that a purchaser would pay on the  open market to rent or lease the tangible personal property for use.  If tangible personal property has no fair market rental value, sales  tax is due based upon the original purchase price. (B) The value of a taxable service is the fair market  value of the taxable service. The fair market value is the amount  that a purchaser would pay on the open market to obtain that taxable  service. If a taxable service has no fair market value, sales tax  is due based upon the original purchase price. (C) At any time the person using a taxable item may  stop paying tax on the value of the taxable item and instead pay sales  tax on the original purchase price. When the person elects to pay  sales tax on the original purchase price, credit will not be allowed  for taxes previously paid based on value. (2) Donation of taxable item. A purchaser who gives  a valid resale certificate instead of paying tax on the purchase of  a taxable item is not liable for sales tax on the taxable item when  donated to an organization exempt under Tax Code, §151.309 (Governmental  Entities), or §151.310(a)(1) and (2) (Religious, Educational,  And Public Service Organizations), provided the purchaser did not  make a taxable use of the donated taxable item prior to its donation. (3) Use of taxable item as a trade-in. A purchaser  who gives a valid resale certificate instead of paying tax on the  purchase of a taxable item is liable for sales tax if the purchaser  uses the taxable item as a trade-in on the purchase of another taxable  item. Tax must be paid on the original purchase price of the taxable  item used as a trade-in. (4) Use of taxable item outside Texas. Texas sales  or use tax is not due on a taxable item removed from a valid tax-free  inventory for use by the purchaser outside the state.  (5) Lost or destroyed inventory. Texas sales or use  tax is not due on tangible personal property purchased under a valid  resale certificate that is totally destroyed or permanently disposed  of by the purchaser in a manner other than for use or sale in the  normal course of business. For example, documented theft, casualty  damage or loss, or disposal in a landfill. This does not apply to  consumable items that are completely used up or destroyed by the purchaser  in the course of performing a service in Texas.  (f) Improper use of a resale certificate; criminal  offenses. (1) A person may not issue a resale certificate at  the time of purchase for a taxable item if the person knows the item  is being purchased for a specific taxable use. (2) Any person who intentionally or knowingly makes,  presents, uses, or alters a resale certificate for the purpose of  evading Texas sales or use tax is guilty of a criminal offense. For  more information, see §3.305 of this title (relating to Criminal  Offenses and Penalties).  (g) Content of a resale certificate. A resale certificate  must show: (1) the name and address of the purchaser; (2) the number from the sales tax permit held by the  purchaser or a statement that an application for a permit is pending  before the comptroller with the date the application for a permit  was made. If the application is pending, the resale certificate is  valid for only 60 days, after which time the resale certificate must  be renewed to show the permanent permit number. If the purchaser holds  a Texas sales and use tax permit, the number must consist of 11 digits  that begin with a 1 or 3. Federal employer's identification (FEI)  numbers or social security numbers are not acceptable evidence of  resale. See also subsection (d)(2) of this section regarding registration  numbers for retailers outside Texas; (3) a description of the taxable items generally sold,  leased, or rented by the purchaser in the regular course of business  and a description of the taxable items to be purchased tax free by  use of the certificate. The item to be purchased may be generally  described on the certificate or itemized in an order or invoice attached  to the certificate; (4) the signature of the purchaser or an electronic  form of the purchaser's signature authorized by the comptroller and  the date; and (5) the name and address of the seller. (h) Form of a resale certificate. A resale certificate  must be substantially either in the form of a Texas Sales and Use  Tax Resale Certificate or a Border States Uniform Sale for Resale  Certificate. Copies of both certificates are available at comptroller.texas.gov  or may be obtained by calling our toll-free number 1-800-252-5555.  A seller may also accept as a resale certificate the Uniform Sales  and Use Tax Certificate-Multijurisdiction promulgated by the Multistate  Tax Commission and available online at http://www.mtc.gov. The Streamlined  Sales and Use Tax Agreement Certificate of Exemption may not be accepted  as a resale certificate."
6|§3.286|Seller's and Purchaser's Responsibilities|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=286|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Consignment sale--The sale, lease, or rental of  tangible personal property by a seller who, under an agreement with  another person, is entrusted with possession of tangible personal  property with respect to which the other person has title or another  ownership interest, and is authorized to sell, lease, or rent the  tangible personal property without additional action by the person  having title to or another ownership interest in the tangible personal  property. (2) Direct sales organization--A person that typically  sells taxable items directly to purchasers through independent salespersons  and not in or through a place of business of the seller. The term  ""independent salespersons"" includes, but is not limited to, distributors,  representatives, and consultants. Items are typically sold person-to-person  through in-home product demonstrations, parties, catalogs, and one-on-one  selling. The term includes, but is not limited to, direct marketing  and multilevel marketing organizations. (3) Disaster- or emergency-related work--Repairing,  renovating, installing, building, rendering services, or performing  other business activities relating to the repair or replacement of  equipment and property, including buildings, offices, structures,  lines, poles, and pipes, that: (A) is owned or used by or for: (i) a telecommunications provider or cable operator; (ii) communications networks; (iii) electric generation; (iv) electric transmissions and distribution systems; (v) natural gas and natural gas liquids gathering,  processing, and storage, transmission and distribution systems; or (vi) water pipelines and related support facilities,  equipment, and property that serve multiple persons; and (B) is damaged, impaired, or destroyed by a declared  state disaster or emergency. (4) Engaged in business--Except as provided in subparagraphs  (L) and (M) of this paragraph, a seller is engaged in business in  this state if the seller: (A) maintains, occupies, or uses in this state, permanently  or temporarily, directly or indirectly, or through an agent by whatever  name called, a kiosk, office, distribution center, sales or sample  room or place, warehouse or storage place, or any other physical location  where business is conducted; (B) has any representative, agent, salesperson, canvasser,  or solicitor who operates under the authority of the seller to conduct  business in this state, including selling, delivering, or taking orders  for taxable items; (C) promotes a flea market, arts and crafts show, trade  day, festival, or other event in this state that involves sales of  taxable items; (D) uses independent salespersons, who may include,  but are not limited to, distributors, representatives, or consultants,  in this state to make direct sales of taxable items; (E) derives receipts from the sale, lease, or rental  of tangible personal property that is located in this state or owns  or uses tangible personal property that is located in this state,  including a computer server or software to solicit orders for taxable  items, unless the seller uses the server or software as a purchaser  of an Internet hosting service; (F) allows a franchisee or licensee to operate under  its trade name in this state if the franchisee or licensee is required  to collect sales or use tax in this state; (G) otherwise conducts business in this state; (H) is formed, organized, or incorporated under the  laws of this state and the seller\'s internal affairs are governed  by the laws of this state, notwithstanding the fact that the seller  may not be otherwise engaged in business in this state pursuant to  this section; (I) engages in regular or systematic solicitation of  sales of taxable items in this state by the distribution of catalogs,  periodicals, advertising flyers, or other advertising, by means of  print, radio, or television media, or by mail, telegraphy, telephone,  computer data base, cable, optic, microwave, or other communication  system for the purpose of effecting sales of taxable items; (J) solicits orders for taxable items by mail or through  other media including the Internet or other media that may be developed  in the future; or (K) holds a substantial ownership interest in, or is  owned in whole or substantial part by, another person who: (i) maintains a distribution center, warehouse, or  similar location in this state and delivers property sold by the seller  to purchasers in this state; (ii) maintains a location in this state from which  business is conducted, sells the same or substantially similar lines  of products as the seller, and sells such products under a business  name that is the same or substantially similar to the business name  of the seller; or (iii) maintains a location in this state from which  business is conducted if the person with the location in this state  uses its facilities or employees: (I) to advertise, promote, or facilitate sales by the  seller to purchasers; or (II) to otherwise perform any activity on behalf of  the seller that is intended to establish or maintain a marketplace  for the seller in this state, including receiving or exchanging returned  merchandise. (iv) For purposes of this subparagraph only, ""ownership""  includes direct ownership, common ownership, or indirect ownership  through a parent entity, subsidiary, or affiliate, and ""substantial,""  with respect to ownership, constitutes an interest, whether direct  or indirect, of at least 50% of: (I) the total combined voting power of all classes  of stock of a corporation; (II) the beneficial ownership interest in the voting  stock of the corporation; (III) the current beneficial interest in the corpus  or income of a trust; (IV) the total membership interest of a limited liability  company; (V) the beneficial ownership interest in the membership  interest of a limited liability company; or (VI) the profits or capital interest of any other entity,  including, but not limited to, a partnership, joint venture, or association. (L) Effective June 16, 2015, a seller is not engaged  in business in this state if the seller is an out-of-state business  entity whose physical presence in this state is solely from the entity\'s  performance of disaster- or emergency-related work during a disaster  response period. An out-of-state business entity that remains in this  state after a disaster response period has ended is engaged in business  in this state if the entity conducts any of the activities described  in subparagraphs (A) - (K) of this paragraph. (i) For purposes of this subparagraph only, an ""affiliate""  is a member of a combined group as that term is described by Tax Code, §171.1014  (Combined Reporting; Affiliated Group Engaged in Unitary Business). (ii) For purposes of this subparagraph only, a ""disaster  response period"" is: (I) the period that: (-a-) begins on the 10th day before the date of the  earliest event establishing a declared state of disaster or emergency  by the issuance of an executive order or proclamation by the governor  or a declaration of the president of the United States; and (-b-) ends on the earlier of the 120th day after the  start date or the 60th day after the ending date of the disaster or  emergency period established by the executive order or proclamation  or declaration, or on a later date as determined by an executive order  or proclamation by the governor; or (II) the period that, with respect to an out-of-state  business entity: (-a-) begins on the date that the out-of-state business  entity enters this state in good faith under a mutual assistance agreement  and in anticipation of a state of disaster or emergency, regardless  of whether a state of disaster or emergency is actually declared;  and (-b-) ends on the earlier of the date that the work  is concluded or the seventh day after the out-of-state business entity  enters this state. (iii) For purposes of this subparagraph only, a ""mutual  assistance agreement"" is an agreement to which one or more business  entities are parties and under which a public utility, municipally  owned utility, or joint agency owning, operating, or owning and operating  critical infrastructure used for electric generation, transmission,  or distribution in this state may request that an out-of-state business  entity perform work in this state in anticipation of a state of disaster  or emergency. (iv) For purposes of this subparagraph only, an ""out-of-state  business entity"" is a foreign entity that: (I) enters this state at the request of, or is an affiliate  of, an in-state business entity and performs work in Texas under a  mutual assistance agreement; or (II) enters this state at the request of an in-state  business entity, under a mutual assistance agreement, or is an affiliate  of an in-state business entity and enters this state at the request  of an in-state business entity, the state of Texas, or a political  subdivision of this state to perform disaster- or emergency-related  work in this state during the disaster response period, and: (-a-) except with respect to the performance of disaster-  or emergency-related work, has no physical presence in this state  and is not authorized to transact business in this state immediately  before a disaster response period; and (-b-) is not registered with the secretary of state  to transact business in this state, does not file a tax report with  this state, or a political subdivision of this state, and is not engaged  in business with this state for the purpose of taxation during the  tax year immediately preceding the disaster response period. (M) A broadcaster, printer, outdoor advertising firm,  advertising distributor, or publisher that broadcasts, publishes,  displays, or distributes paid commercial advertising in this state  that is intended to be disseminated primarily to consumers located  in this state and is only secondarily disseminated to bordering jurisdictions,  including advertising appearing exclusively in a Texas edition or  section of a national publication, is considered for purposes of this  subsection to be the agent of the person placing the advertisement  and is not considered to be engaged in business in this state as a  result of those acts. (5) Internet hosting service--The provision to an unrelated  user of access over the Internet to computer services using property  that is owned or leased and managed by the service provider and on  which the unrelated user may store or process the user\'s own data  or use software that is owned, licensed, or leased by the unrelated  user or service provider. The term does not include telecommunications  services as defined in §3.344 of this title (relating to Telecommunications  Services). (6) Itinerant vendor--A seller who does not operate  a place of business in this state and who travels to various locations  in this state to solicit sales. (7) Kiosk--A small, stand-alone area or structure that: (A) is used solely to display merchandise or to submit  orders for taxable items from a data entry device, or both; (B) is located entirely within a location that is a  place of business of another seller, such as a department store or  shopping mall; and (C) at which taxable items are not available for immediate  delivery to a purchaser. (8) Marketplace--A physical or electronic medium through  which persons other than the owner or operator of the medium make  sales of taxable items. The term includes a store, internet website,  software application, or catalog. (9) Marketplace provider--A person who owns or operates  a marketplace and directly or indirectly processes sales or payments  for marketplace sellers.  (10) Marketplace seller--A seller, other than the marketplace  provider, who makes a sale of a taxable item through a marketplace.  (11) Permit holder--A person to whom the comptroller  has issued a sales and use tax permit. The term includes permitted  sellers as well as permitted purchasers, but does not include a person  who does not hold a Texas sales and use tax permit or whose sales  and use tax permit is suspended, pursuant to subsection (l) of this  section, or cancelled, pursuant to subsection (n) of this section,  or a person who has not received a sales and use tax permit due to  an unsigned or incomplete application. (12) Place of business of the seller--This term has  the meaning given in §3.334 of this title (relating to Local  Sales and Use Taxes). (13) Seller--Every retailer, wholesaler, distributor,  manufacturer, marketplace provider, or any other person who sells,  leases, rents, or transfers ownership of tangible personal property  or performs taxable services for consideration. Seller is further  defined as follows: Cont\'d...', '(A) A promoter of a flea market, trade day, or other  event that involves the sales of taxable items is a seller responsible  for the collection and remittance of the sales tax that dealers, salespersons,  or individuals collect at such events, unless those persons hold active  sales and use tax permits that the comptroller has issued. (B) A direct sales organization that is engaged in  business in this state is a seller responsible for the collection  and remittance of the sales and use tax collected by the organization\'s  independent salespersons. (C) Pawnbrokers, storage facility operators, mechanics,  artisans, or others who sell property to enforce a lien are sellers  responsible for the collection and remittance of sales and use tax  on the sale of such tangible personal property.  (D) A person engaged in business in this state who  sells, leases, or rents tangible personal property owned by another  person by means of a consignment sale is a seller responsible for  the collection and remittance of the sales tax on the consignment  sale. (E) An auctioneer who owns tangible personal property  or to whom tangible personal property has been consigned is a seller  responsible for the collection and remittance of the sales and use  tax on tangible personal property sold at auction. For more information,  auctioneers should refer to §3.311 of this title (relating to  Auctioneers, Brokers, and Factors). (14) Taxable item--Tangible personal property and taxable  services. Except as otherwise provided in Tax Code, Chapter 151, the  sale or use of a taxable item in electronic form instead of on physical  media does not alter the item\'s tax status. (A) Tangible personal property means property that  can be seen, weighed, measured, felt, or touched or that is perceptible  to the senses in any other manner, including a computer program as  defined in §3.308 of this title (relating to Computers--Hardware,  Computer Programs, Services, and Sales) and a telephone prepaid calling  card, as defined in §3.344 of this title. (B) Taxable services are those identified in Tax Code, §151.0101  (Taxable Services). (b) Who must have a sales and use tax permit. (1) Sellers. Except as provided in paragraph (2) of  this subsection, each seller who is engaged in business in this state,  including itinerant vendors, persons who own or operate a kiosk, and  sellers operating temporarily in this state, must apply to the comptroller  and obtain a sales and use tax permit for each place of business of  the seller operated in this state and a single permit for its out-of-state  places of business. (2) Safe harbor for remote sellers. (A) Remote seller defined. For purposes of this paragraph,  a remote seller is a seller engaged in business in this state whose  only activity in the state is described in subsection (a)(4)(I) or  (J) of this section. (B) Safe harbor. (i) Permitting and collection obligations. The comptroller  will not enforce the permit requirement of this subsection or the  collection obligation of subsection (d) of this section on a remote  seller whose total Texas revenue in the preceding twelve calendar  months is less than $500,000. If a remote seller\'s total Texas revenue  exceeds that amount, the remote seller shall obtain a permit and begin  collecting as provided in subparagraph (E) of this paragraph and shall  continue to collect unless it terminates its collection obligation  under subparagraph (F) of this paragraph. (ii) Temporary storage of inventory. A remote seller  that is temporarily storing tangible personal property in Texas to  be used for fulfillment at a facility of a marketplace provider that  has certified that it will assume the rights and duties of a seller  with respect to the tangible personal property, as provided for in  this subsection, will not have to obtain a permit or have a collection  obligation. This subsection is not applicable to those remote sellers  who are above the safe harbor amount under clause (i) of this subparagraph.  (C) Total Texas revenue defined for purposes of this  paragraph.  (i) Total Texas revenue means the gross revenue from  the sale of tangible personal property and services for storage, use,  or other consumption in this state recognized under the accounting  method used by the seller, and includes separately stated handling,  transportation, installation, and other similar fees collected by  the seller in connection with the sale. (ii) A remote seller shall include in total Texas revenue,  the aggregate sum of all sales made on all mediums, including all  marketplaces and the remote seller\'s own website. This clause takes  effect on April 1, 2020.  (iii) Total Texas revenue includes taxable, nontaxable,  and tax-exempt sales. A sale of an item for delivery in this state  is presumed to be a sale for storage, use, or other consumption in  this state. With respect to a service, ""use"" means the derivation  in this state of direct or indirect benefit from the service.  (D) Consolidation of total Texas revenue. The comptroller  may consolidate the total Texas revenue of sellers engaged in conduct  that circumvents the safe harbor amount in subparagraph (B) of this  paragraph. (E) When to obtain a permit and begin collecting. No  later than the first day of the fourth month after the month in which  a remote seller exceeds the safe harbor amount in subparagraph (B)  of this paragraph, the remote seller shall obtain a permit and begin  collecting use tax. For example, if during the period of July 1, 2018,  through June 30, 2019, a remote seller\'s total Texas revenue exceeds  the safe harbor amount in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, the  remote seller shall obtain a permit by October 1, 2019, and begin  collecting use tax no later than October 1, 2019. (F) Terminating collection obligation. A remote seller  that is required to be permitted may terminate its collection obligation  under this paragraph after twelve consecutive months in which the  remote seller\'s total Texas revenue for the preceding twelve calendar  months is below the safe harbor amount in subparagraph (B) of this  paragraph. In order to terminate its collection obligation, a remote  seller must submit a form prescribed by the comptroller. Thereafter,  the remote seller shall resume collection on the first day of the  second month following any twelve calendar months in which the remote  seller\'s total Texas revenue exceeds the safe harbor amount in subparagraph  (B) of this paragraph. For example, if the total Texas revenue of  a remote seller that previously terminated its collection obligation  exceeds the safe harbor amount in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph  during the period of January 1, 2020, through December 31, 2020, the  remote seller shall resume collection on February 1, 2021. (G) Records retention required. For purposes of this  paragraph, a remote seller that terminates its collection obligation  shall comply with the record retention requirement of §3.281  of this title (relating to Records Required; Information Required)  and §3.282 of this title (relating to Auditing Taxpayer Records).  The remote seller must maintain sufficient documentation to verify  the date on which the remote seller terminated its collection obligation  under subparagraph (F) of this paragraph or ceases to engage in business  in this state. (H) Transition rule. Remote sellers will be subject  to the permit requirement of this subsection and the collection obligation  of subsection (d) of this section beginning on October 1, 2019. The  initial twelve calendar months for determining a remote seller\'s total  Texas revenue will be July 1, 2018, through June 30, 2019. If a remote  seller\'s total Texas revenue during that period exceeds the safe harbor  amount in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, the seller shall obtain  a permit by October 1, 2019, and begin collecting use tax no later  than October 1, 2019. (3) Marketplace providers and marketplace sellers.  (A) Duties of marketplace providers. A marketplace  provider shall: (i) certify in writing to each marketplace seller that  the marketplace provider assumes the rights and duties of a seller  with respect to sales made by the marketplace seller through the marketplace  (no specific language or format is required for the certification); (ii) collect sales and use tax on Texas sales of taxable  items made through the marketplace; (iii) report and remit the sales and use taxes on all  Texas sales made through a marketplace; (iv) provide to each marketplace seller records of  the marketplace sales made on behalf of the marketplace seller; and  (v) comply with the record retention requirement of §3.281  of this title and §3.282 of this title.  (B) Duties of marketplace sellers. A marketplace seller  shall:  (i) retain records for all marketplace sales made on  a marketplace as required in §3.281 of this title and §3.282  of this title;  (ii) furnish to the marketplace provider information  that is required to correctly collect and remit sales and use tax  (the information may include a certification of taxability that an  item being sold is a taxable item, is not a taxable item, or is exempt  from taxation); and  (iii) not be required to obtain a permit if only selling  through a marketplace provider that has certified that it will assume  the rights and duties of a seller, as provided in this subsection. (C) Good faith requirements for marketplace sellers  and marketplace providers. (i) A marketplace seller who in good faith accepts  a marketplace provider\'s certification under subparagraph (A)(i) of  this paragraph shall exclude sales made through the marketplace from  the marketplace seller\'s sales tax report if the marketplace seller  is otherwise required to collect and remit tax.  (ii) Except as provided by subparagraph (E) of this  paragraph, a marketplace provider is not liable for failure to collect  and remit the correct amount of sales and use taxes if the marketplace  provider shows the failure resulted from the marketplace provider\'s  good faith reliance on incorrect or insufficient information provided  by the marketplace seller.  (D) A marketplace seller is liable for any deficiency  resulting from incorrect or incomplete information provided by the  marketplace seller to the marketplace provider.  (E) Joint and several liability. A marketplace provider  and marketplace seller that are affiliates or associates, as defined  by Business Organizations Code, §1.002, are jointly and severally  liable for a deficiency resulting from a sale made by the marketplace  seller through the marketplace. (F) Marketplace provider waiver requests. A marketplace  provider may request a waiver of the requirements of subparagraph  (A) of this paragraph by sending a written request to the Texas Comptroller  of Public Accounts, Tax Policy Division that explains the basis for  the waiver. The comptroller will review the waiver request and issue  a letter granting, conditionally granting, or denying the waiver request.  If the information below, or any additional information requested  by the comptroller, is not provided, the comptroller will not issue  a waiver. The requestor does not have the right to a hearing. The  request for the waiver must include: (i) the name of the marketplace provider; (ii) an explanation of the marketplace provider\'s business  model, including information on the services offered by the marketplace  provider and the charges for those services;  (iii) the basis for the waiver request; (iv) a statement providing whether the waiver is permanent  or temporary; and  (v) if temporary, the date the marketplace provider  expects the waiver to expire. (G) Exceptions. The comptroller may except marketplace  providers in certain industries from some or all of the statutory  and regulatory requirements for marketplace providers based on the  industries\' business models and practices. The comptroller will provide  written notification to the excepted marketplace providers. (4) A seller that no longer intends to engage in business  and make sales of taxable items in the state shall submit a form prescribed  by the comptroller to terminate its permit and must obtain a new permit  before it commences sales of taxable items in the state thereafter.  The seller must maintain sufficient documentation to verify the date  on which the seller ceases to engage in business in this state. (5) Direct sales organizations. Independent salespersons  of direct sales organizations are not required to hold sales and use  tax permits to sell taxable items for direct sales organizations.  Direct sales organizations engaged in business in this state are sellers  responsible for holding sales and use tax permits and for the collection  and remittance of sales and use tax on all sales of taxable items  by their independent salespersons. See subsection (d)(3) of this section  for more information about the collection and remittance of sales  and use tax by direct sales organizations. (6) Non-permitted purchasers. Persons who are not required  to have a sales and use tax permit or who do not have a direct payment  permit are still responsible for paying to the comptroller sales or  use tax due on purchases of taxable items from sellers who do not  collect and remit tax. See subsection (g)(9) of this section for return  and payment information and §3.346 of this title (relating to  Use Tax). Cont\'d...', '(7) Non-permitted sellers. Failure to obtain a sales  and use tax permit does not relieve a seller required by this section  or other applicable law to have a sales and use tax permit from the  obligation to properly collect and remit sales and use taxes. Sellers  whose sales and use tax permits are suspended, pursuant to subsection  (l) of this section, or cancelled, pursuant to subsection (n) of this  section, and sellers who have not received sales and use tax permits  due to unsigned or incomplete applications, are still responsible  for properly collecting and remitting sales and use taxes. See subsection  (g) of this section for return and payment information. (c) Obtaining a sales and use tax permit. (1) A seller must complete an application that the  comptroller furnishes and must return that application to the comptroller,  together with bond or other security that may be required by §3.327  of this title (relating to Taxpayer\'s Bond or Other Security). A seller  who files an electronic application furnished by the comptroller is  deemed to have signed the application and is not required to print  and mail a signed application to the comptroller. A separate sales  and use tax permit under the same taxpayer account number is issued  to the applicant for each place of business of the seller. Sales and  use tax permits are issued without charge. (2) Each seller must apply for a sales and use tax  permit. An individual or sole proprietor must be at least 18 years  of age unless the comptroller allows an exception from the age requirement.  The sales and use tax permit cannot be transferred from one seller  to another. The sales and use tax permit is valid only for the seller  to whom it was issued and for the transaction of business only at  the address that is shown on the sales and use tax permit. If a seller  operates two or more types of business at the same location, then  only one sales and use tax permit is required. (3) The sales and use tax permit must be conspicuously  displayed at the place of business of the seller for which it is issued.  A permit holder that has traveling sales persons who operate from  a central office needs only one sales and use tax permit, which must  be displayed at that office. (4) All sales and use tax permits of the seller will  have the same taxpayer account number; however, each place of business  of the seller will have a different outlet number. The outlet numbers  assigned may not necessarily correspond to the number of business  locations operated by the seller. (d) Collecting sales and use tax due. (1) Bracket system. (A) Each seller must collect sales or use tax on each  separate retail sale in accordance with the statutory bracket system  in Tax Code, §151.053 (Sales Tax Brackets). The practice of rounding  off the amount of sales or use tax that is due on the sale of a taxable  item is prohibited. Copies of the bracket system should be displayed  in each place of business of the seller so both the seller and the  purchaser may easily use them. (B) The sales and use tax applies to each total sale,  not to each item of each sale. For example, if two items are purchased  at the same time and each item is sold for $.07, then the seller must  collect the tax on the total sum of $.14. Sales and use tax must be  reported and remitted to the comptroller as provided by Tax Code, §151.410  (Method of Reporting Sales Tax; General Rule). When sales and use  tax is collected properly under the bracket system, the seller is  not required to remit any amount that is collected in excess of the  sales and use tax due. Conversely, when the sales and use tax collected  under the bracket system is less than the sales and use tax due on  the seller\'s total receipts, the seller is required to remit sales  and use tax on the total receipts even though the seller did not collect  sales and use tax from the purchasers. (2) Sales and use tax due is debt of the purchaser;  document requirements. (A) The sales and use tax due is a debt of the purchaser  to the seller until collected. Unpaid sales or use tax is recoverable  by the seller in the same manner as the original sales price of the  taxable item itself, if unpaid, would be recoverable. The comptroller  may proceed against either the seller or purchaser, or against both,  until all applicable tax, penalty, and interest due has been paid. (B) The amount of sales and use tax due must be separately  stated on the bill, contract, or invoice to the purchaser or there  must be a written statement to the purchaser that the stated price  includes sales or use tax. Contracts, bills, or invoices that merely  state that ""all taxes"" are included are not specific enough to relieve  either party to the transaction of its sales and use tax responsibilities.  The total amount that is shown on such documents is presumed to be  the taxable item\'s sales price, without sales and use tax included.  The seller or purchaser may overcome the presumption by using the  seller\'s records to show that sales or use tax was included in the  sales price. Sellers located outside of Texas must identify the tax  as Texas sales or use tax on their bill, contract, or invoice to the  purchaser. If the out-of-state seller does not identify the tax as  Texas sales or use tax at the time of the transaction, the seller  is presumed not to have collected Texas sales or use tax. Either the  seller or the purchaser may overcome the presumption by submitting  evidence that clearly demonstrates that the Texas sales or use tax  was remitted to the comptroller. (3) Direct sales organizations. A direct sales organization  is responsible for the collection and remittance of the sales and  use tax on all sales of taxable items in this state by the independent  salespersons who sell the organization\'s product or service as explained  in this paragraph. See subsection (b)(4) of this section for information  about sales and use tax permits required to be held by direct sales  organizations.  (A) If an independent salesperson purchases a taxable  item from a direct sales organization after taking the purchaser\'s  order, then the direct sales organization must collect from the independent  salesperson, and remit to the comptroller, the sales and use tax on  the actual sales price for which the independent salesperson sold  the taxable item to the purchaser. (B) If an independent salesperson purchases a taxable  item from a direct sales organization before the purchaser\'s order  is taken, then the direct sales organization must collect from the  independent salesperson, and remit to the comptroller, the sales and  use tax based on the organization\'s suggested retail sales price of  the taxable item. (C) Taxable items that are sold to an independent salesperson  for the salesperson\'s use are taxed based on the actual sales price  for which the item was sold to the salesperson at the tax rate in  effect for the salesperson\'s location. (D) Incentives, including rewards, gifts, and prizes. (i) Direct sales organizations owe sales and use tax  on the cost of all taxable items used as incentives that are transferred  to a recipient in this state, including purchasers, independent salespersons,  and persons who host a direct sales event. (ii) Direct sales organizations must collect sales  or use tax on the total amount of consideration received in exchange  for taxable items, including items purchased with hostess points or  similar forms of compensation paid to a person for hosting a direct  sales event and items that are earned by the host based on the volume  of purchases. The redemption of reward points in exchange for taxable  items is subject to sales tax under Tax Code, §151.005(2) (""Sale""  or ""Purchase""). See also §3.283 of this title (relating to Bartering  Clubs and Exchanges). (4) Payment of certain sales and use taxes by a seller.  A seller may directly or indirectly advertise, hold out, or state  to a purchaser or to the public that the seller will pay the sales  and use tax for the customer if: (A) the seller indicates in the advertisement, holding  out, or statement that the seller is paying the tax for the purchaser; (B) the seller does not indicate or imply in the advertisement,  holding out, or statement that the sale is exempt or excluded from  taxation; and (C) any purchaser\'s receipt or other statement given  to the purchaser identifying the sales price paid or to be paid by  the purchaser separately states the amount of the tax and indicates  that the tax will be paid by the seller.  (5) Printers. A printer is a seller of printed materials  and is required to collect sales and use tax on sales of those materials  in this state. A printer who is engaged in business in this state,  however, is not required to collect the sales and use tax if: (A) the printed materials are produced by a web offset  or rotogravure printing process; (B) the printer delivers those materials to a fulfillment  house or to the United States Postal Service for distribution to third  parties who are located both inside and outside of this state; and (C) the purchaser issues a properly completed exemption  certificate that contains the statement that the printed materials  are for multistate use and the purchaser agrees to pay to this state  all the sales and use taxes that are or may become due to the state  on the taxable items that are purchased under the exemption certificate.  See subsection (g)(4) of this section for additional reporting requirements. (6) Fundraisers by exempt entities. Regardless of the  contractual terms between a for-profit entity and a non-profit exempt  entity relating to the sale of taxable items, other than amusement  services, as part of any fundraiser, the for-profit entity will be  considered the seller of the items under Tax Code, §151.024 (Persons  Who May be Regarded as Retailers), must be a permit holder, and is  responsible for the proper collection and remittance of any sales  or use tax due. The exempt entity and its representatives will be  considered as representatives of the for-profit entity. The for-profit  entity may advertise in a sales catalog or state on each invoice that  sales and use tax is included, as provided under paragraph (2) of  this subsection, or may require that the sales and use tax be calculated  and collected by its representatives based on the sales price of each  taxable item. Fundraisers conducted by exempt entities in this manner  do not qualify as a tax-free sale day. For more information on exempt  entities and tax-free sales days, see §3.322 of this title (relating  to Exempt Organizations). For more information on amusement services,  see §3.298 of this title (relating to Amusement Services). (7) Local sales and use tax. A seller who is required  to be permitted in this state is required to properly collect and  remit local sales and use tax even if no sales and use tax permit  is required at the location where taxable items are sold. For more  information on the proper collection of local taxes, see §3.334  of this title. (e) Sales and use tax returns and remitting tax due. (1) Forms prescribed by the comptroller. Sales and  use tax returns must be filed on forms that the comptroller prescribes.  The fact that a person does not receive or obtain the correct forms  from the comptroller does not relieve a person of the responsibility  to file a sales and use tax return and to remit the required sales  and use tax. (2) Signatures. Sales and use tax returns must be signed  by the person who is required to file the sales and use tax return  or by the person\'s duly authorized agent, but need not be verified  by oath. (3) Permit holders. (A) Each permit holder is required to file a sales  and use tax return for each reporting period, even if the permit holder  has no sales or use tax to report for the reporting period. (B) Each permit holder must remit sales and use tax  on all receipts from sales or purchases of nonexempt taxable items,  less any applicable discounts as provided by subsection (h) of this  section. (C) Each permit holder shall file a single sales and  use tax return together with the tax payment for all businesses that  operate under the same taxpayer number. The sales and use tax return  for each reporting period must reflect the total sales, taxable sales,  and taxable purchases for each outlet. (D) Consolidated reporting by affiliated entities is  not allowed. Each legal entity engaged in business in this state is  responsible for filing a separate sales and use tax return. (4) Electronic returns and remittances. Certain persons  must file returns and transfer payments electronically as provided  by Tax Code, §111.0625 (Electronic Transfer of Certain Payments)  and §111.0626 (Electronic Filing of Certain Reports). For more  information, see §3.9 of this title (relating to Electronic Filing  of Returns and Reports; Electronic Transfer of Certain Payments by  Certain Taxpayers). (f) Due dates. (1) General rule. Sales and use tax returns and remittances  are due no later than the 20th day of the month following each reporting  period end date unless otherwise provided by this section. Sales and  use tax returns and remittances that are due on Saturdays, Sundays,  or legal holidays may be submitted on the next business day. (A) Sales and use tax returns submitted by mail must  be postmarked on or before the due date to be considered timely. Cont\'d...', '(B) Sales and use tax returns filed electronically  must be completed and submitted by 11:59 p.m., central time, on the  due date to be considered timely. (2) Due dates for payments made using an electronic  funds transfer method approved by the comptroller are provided at §3.9(c)  of this title. (3) Extensions for persons located in an area designated  in a state of disaster or state of emergency declaration. The comptroller  may grant an extension of not more than 90 days to make or file a  sales and use tax return or pay sales and use tax that is due by a  person located in an area designated in an executive order or proclamation  issued by the governor declaring a state of disaster or state of emergency,  or an area that the president of the United States declares a major  disaster or emergency, if the comptroller finds the person to be a  victim of the disaster or emergency. The person owing the sales and  use tax may file a written request for an extension at any time before  the expiration of 90 days after the original due date. If an extension  is granted, interest on the unpaid tax does not begin to accrue until  the day after the day on which the extension expires, and penalties  are assessed and determined as though the last day of the extension  were the original due date. (g) Reporting periods. (1) Quarterly filers. Permit holders who have less  than $1,500 in state sales and use tax per quarter to report may file  sales and use tax returns quarterly. The quarterly reporting periods  end on March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. (2) Yearly filers. Permit holders who have less than  $1,000 in state sales and use tax to report during a calendar year  may file yearly sales and use tax returns upon authorization from  the comptroller. (A) Authorization to file sales and use tax returns  on a yearly basis is conditioned upon the correct and timely filing  of prior returns. (B) Authorization to file sales and use tax returns  on a yearly basis will be denied if a permit holder\'s liability exceeded  $1,000 in the prior calendar year. (C) A permit holder who files on a yearly basis without  authorization is liable for applicable penalty and interest on any  previously unreported quarter. (D) Authority to file on a yearly basis is automatically  revoked if a permit holder\'s state sales and use tax liability is  greater than $1,000 during a calendar year. The permit holder must  file a sales and use tax return for that month or quarter, depending  on the amount, in which the sales and use tax payment or liability  is greater than $1,000. On that return, the permit holder must report  all sales and use taxes that are collected and all accrued liability  for the year, and must file monthly or quarterly, as appropriate,  thereafter for as long as the yearly sales and use tax liability is  greater than $1,000. (E) Once each year, the comptroller reviews all accounts  to confirm yearly filing status and to authorize permit holders who  meet the filing requirements to file yearly sales and use tax returns. (F) Yearly filers must report on a calendar year basis.  The sales and use tax return and payment are due on or before January  20 of the next calendar year. (3) Monthly filers. Permit holders who have $1,500  or more in state sales and use tax per quarter to report must file  monthly sales and use tax returns except for permit holders who prepay  the sales and use tax as provided in subsection (h) of this section. (4) Printers. A printer who is not required to collect  sales and use tax on the sale of printed materials because the transaction  meets the requirements of subsection (d)(4) of this section must file  a quarterly special use tax report, Form 01-157, Texas Special Use  Tax Report for Printers, its electronic equivalent, or any form promulgated  by the comptroller that succeeds such form, with the comptroller on  or before the last day of the month following the quarter. The report  must contain the name and address of each purchaser with the sales  price and date of each sale. The printer is still required to file  sales and use tax returns to report and remit sales and use taxes  that the printer collected from purchasers on transactions that do  not meet the requirements of subsection (d)(4) of this section. (5) Local sales and use tax. Each permit holder who  is required to collect, report, and remit a city, county, special  purpose district, or metropolitan transit authority/city transit department  sales and use tax must report the amount subject to local sales and  use tax on the state sales and use tax return described in subsection  (e) of this section. (6) State agencies. Sales and use taxes must be deposited  with the comptroller within the time period specified by law for deposit  of state funds. State agencies may file sales and use tax returns  through electronic reporting methods provided by the comptroller,  which allocates total sales and use tax deposits by state and local  taxing authority. State agencies that deposit sales and use taxes  according to Accounting Policy Statement Number 8 are not required  to file a separate sales and use tax return, but must manually allocate  total sales and use tax deposits by state and local taxing authority  and deposit those amounts in accordance with the policy. Paragraphs  (1) - (3) of this subsection do not apply to agencies following Accounting  Policy Statement Number 8, as a fully completed deposit request voucher  is deemed to be the sales and use tax return filed by these agencies. (7) Refunds on exports. Sellers who refund sales tax  on exports based on customs broker certifications should refer to §3.360  of this title (relating to Customs Brokers). (8) Direct payment permit holders. Yearly and quarterly  filing requirements, as discussed in this subsection, and prepayment  discounts and discounts for timely filing, as discussed in subsection  (h) of this section, do not apply to holders of direct payment permits.  See §3.288 of this title (relating to Direct Payment Procedures  and Qualifications). (9) Non-permitted purchasers. A person who does not  hold a sales and use tax permit or a direct payment permit must pay  sales or use tax that is due on purchases of taxable items when the  sales or use tax is not collected by the seller. The sales or use  tax is to be remitted on comptroller Form 01-156, Texas Use Tax Return,  its electronic equivalent, or any form promulgated by the comptroller  that succeeds such form. (A) A non-permitted purchaser who owes less than $1000  in sales and use tax on all purchases made during a calendar year  on which sales and use tax was not collected by the seller must file  the return on or before the 20th of January following the year in  which the purchases were made.  (B) A non-permitted purchaser who owes $1000 or more  in sales and use tax on all purchases made during a calendar year  on which sales and use tax was not collected by the seller must file  a return and remit sales and use taxes due on or before the 20th of  the month following the month when the $1000 threshold is reached  and thereafter file monthly returns and make sales and use tax payments  on all purchases on which sales and use tax is due. (h) Discounts; prepayments; penalties and interest  relating to filing sales and use tax returns. (1) Discounts. Unless otherwise provided by this section,  each permit holder may claim a discount for timely filing a sales  and use tax return and paying the taxes due as reimbursement for the  expense of collecting and remitting the sales and use tax. The discount  is equal to 0.5% of the amount of sales and use tax due and may be  claimed on the return for each reporting period and is computed on  the amount timely reported and paid with that return. (2) Prepayments. Prepayments may be made by permit  holders who file monthly or quarterly sales and use tax returns. The  amount of the prepayment must be a reasonable estimate of the state  and local sales and use tax liability for the entire reporting period.  ""Reasonable estimate"" means at least 90% of the total amount due or  an amount equal to the actual net tax liability due and paid for the  same reporting period of the immediately preceding year. (A) A permit holder who makes a timely prepayment based  upon a reasonable estimate of sales and use tax liability may retain  an additional discount of 1.25% of the amount due. (B) The monthly prepayment is due on or before the  15th day of the month for which the prepayment is made. (C) The quarterly prepayment is due on or before the  15th day of the second month of the quarter for which the sales and  use tax is due. (D) A permit holder who makes a timely prepayment must  file a sales and use tax return showing the actual liability and remit  any amount due in excess of the prepayment on or before the 20th day  of the month that follows the quarter or month for which a prepayment  was made. If there is an additional amount due, the permit holder  may retain the 0.5% reimbursement on the additional amount due, provided  that both the sales and use tax return and the additional amount due  are timely filed. If the prepayment exceeded the actual liability,  the permit holder will be mailed an overpayment notice or refund warrant. (E) Remittances that are less than a reasonable estimate,  as described by this paragraph, are not regarded as prepayments and  the 1.25% discount will not be allowed. If the permit holder owes  more than $1,500 in a calendar quarter, the permit holder is regarded  as a monthly filer. All monthly sales and use tax returns that are  not filed because of the invalid prepayment are subject to late filing  penalty and interest. (3) Penalties and interest. (A) If a person does not file a sales and use tax return  together with payment on or before the due date, the person forfeits  all discounts and incurs a mandatory 5.0% penalty. After the first  30 days delinquency, an additional mandatory penalty of 5.0% is assessed  against the person, and after the first 60 days delinquency, interest  begins to accrue at the prime rate, as published in the Wall Street  Journal on the first business day of each calendar year, plus 1.0%.  For taxes that are due on or before December 31, 1999, interest is  assessed at the rate of 12% annually. (B) A person who fails to timely file a sales and use  tax return when due shall pay an additional penalty of $50. The penalty  is due regardless of whether the person subsequently files the sales  and use tax return or whether no taxes are due for the reporting period. (C) A seller who advertises, holds out, or states that  the seller will pay the sales and use tax as provided by subsection  (d)(4) of this section and makes a sale of a taxable item: (i) is presumed to have received or collected the amount  of the sales and use taxes on the sale or storage, use, or consumption  in this state of the taxable item; (ii) must hold the amount described by clause (i) of  this subparagraph in trust for the benefit of the state; and  (iii) is liable to the state for the amount described  by clause (i) of this subparagraph plus any accrued penalties and  interest on the amount.  (i) Reports of alcoholic beverage sales to retailers.  Each brewer, manufacturer, wholesaler, winery, distributor, or package  store local distributor shall electronically file a report of alcoholic  beverage sales to retailers, as that term is defined in §3.9(e)(2)  of this title, as provided in that section. (j) Records required for comptroller inspection. See §3.281  of this title and §3.282 of this title. (k) Resale and exemption certificates. See §3.285  of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale) and §3.287  of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates). (l) Suspension of sales and use tax permit. (1) If a permit holder fails to comply with any provision  of Tax Code, Title 2, or with the rules issued by the comptroller  under those statutes, the comptroller may suspend the permit holder\'s  sales and use tax permit or permits. (2) Before a permit holder\'s sales and use tax permit  is suspended, the permit holder is entitled to a hearing before the  comptroller to show cause why the permit should not be suspended.  The comptroller shall give the permit holder at least 20 days notice.  The notice will include a statement of the matters asserted and procedures  to be followed. A show cause notice for suspension of a sales and  use tax permit shall serve as notice that the comptroller may suspend  any other sales and use tax permits held by the entity.  (3) After a sales and use tax permit has been suspended,  a new permit will not be issued to the same person until the person  has posted sufficient security and satisfied the comptroller that  the person will comply with both the provisions of the law and the  comptroller\'s rules and regulations. (m) Refusal to issue sales and use tax permit. The  comptroller is required by Tax Code, §111.0046 (Permit or License),  to refuse to issue any sales and use tax permit to a person who: (1) is not permitted or licensed as required by law  for a different tax or activity administered by the comptroller; or (2) is currently delinquent in the payment of any tax  or fee collected by the comptroller. (n) Cancellation of sales and use tax permits with  no reported business activity. Cont\'d...', '(1) Permit cancellation due to abandonment. Any holder  of a sales and use tax permit who reported no business activity in  the previous calendar year is deemed to have abandoned the sales and  use tax permit, and the comptroller may cancel the sales and use tax  permit. ""No business activity"" means zero total sales, zero taxable  sales, and zero taxable purchases. (2) Re-application. If a sales and use tax permit is  cancelled, the person may reapply and obtain a new sales and use tax  permit upon request, provided the issuance is not prohibited by subsection  (m) of this section, or by Tax Code, §111.0046. (o) Liability related to acquisition of a business  or assets of a business. Tax Code, §111.020 (Tax Collection on  Termination of Business) and §111.024 (Liability in Fraudulent  Transfers), provides that the comptroller may impose a tax liability  on a person who acquires a business or the assets of a business. See §3.7  of this title (relating to Successor Liability: Liability Incurred  by Purchase of a Business). (p) Criminal penalties. Tax Code, Chapter 151, imposes  criminal penalties for certain prohibited activities or for failure  to comply with certain provisions under the law. See §3.305 of  this title (relating to Criminal Offenses and Penalties)."
7|§3.287|Exemption Certificates|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=287|(a) Definition. Exemption certificate--A document that,  when properly executed, allows the tax-free purchase of an item that  would otherwise be subject to tax. Except as otherwise stated, the  exemption certificate described in this section refers to the Texas  Sales and Use Tax Exemption Certification, Form 01-339 (Back) or a  document substantially in the same format. There is no provision in  Tax Code, Chapter 151 (Limited Sales, Excise, and Use Tax) for an  exemption number or a tax exempt number to be issued or used in connection  with the Texas Sales and Use Tax Exemption Certification, Form 01-339  (Back). (b) Who may issue an exemption certificate. An exemption  certificate of the type described in this section may only be issued  by one of the following: (1) an organization that has qualified for exemption  under Tax Code, §151.309 (Governmental Entities) or §151.310  (Religious, Educational, and Public Service Organizations). See §3.322  of this title (relating to Exempt Organizations); or  (2) a person purchasing an item that is exempt under  Tax Code, Chapter 151, Subchapter H (Exemptions). (c) Exemptions addressed by other sections of this  title: Direct payment permit holders, maquiladoras, agriculture, timber,  qualifying data centers, qualified research, prior contracts and sales  for resale. (1) Purchasers using direct pay permits should refer  to §3.288 of this title (relating to Direct Payment Procedures  and Qualifications). (2) Purchasers using maquiladora exemption permits  should refer to §3.358 of this title (relating to Maquiladoras). (3) Purchasers claiming an agriculture exemption should  refer to §3.296 of this title (relating to Agriculture, Animal  Life, Feed, Seed, Plants, and Fertilizer).  (4) Purchasers claiming a timber exemption should refer  to §3.367 of this title (relating to Timber Items).  (5) Purchasers claiming a qualifying data center exemption  should refer to §3.335 of this title (relating to Property Used  in a Qualifying Data Center or Qualifying Large Data Center Project;  Temporary State Sales Tax Exemption).  (6) Purchasers claiming a qualified research exemption  should refer to §3.340 of this title (relating to Qualified Research).  (7) Purchasers claiming a prior contract exemption  should refer to §3.319 of this title (relating to Prior Contracts)  and §3.334 of this title (relating to Local Sales and Use Taxes).  (8) Purchasers claiming a sale for resale exemption  should refer to §3.285 of this title (relating to Resale Certificate;  Sales for Resale).  (d) Acceptance of exemption certificate. (1) All gross receipts of a seller are presumed subject  to sales or use tax unless a valid and properly completed resale or  exemption certificate is accepted by the seller. Resale certificates  are addressed in detail in §3.285 of this title.  (2) A seller does not owe tax on a sale, lease, or  rental of a taxable item if the seller accepts a properly completed  exemption certificate in good faith. An exemption certificate is deemed  to be accepted in good faith if:  (A) the exemption certificate is accepted at or before  the time of the transaction;  (B) the exemption certificate is properly completed,  meaning that all of the information required by subsection (f) of  this section is legible; and  (C) the seller does not know, and does not have reason  to know, that the sale is not exempt. It is the seller's responsibility  to be familiar with Texas sales tax law as it applies to the seller's  business and to be familiar with the exemptions that are available  for the items the seller sells.  (3) A person commits an offense if the person: intentionally  or knowingly makes a false entry in, or a fraudulent alteration of,  an exemption certification; makes, presents, or uses an exemption  certificate with knowledge that it is false and with the intent that  it be accepted as a valid exemption certificate; or intentionally  conceals, removes, or impairs the verity or legibility of an exemption  certificate or unreasonably impedes the availability of an exemption  certificate. (A) If the tax evaded by the invalid certificate is  less than $20, the offense is a Class C misdemeanor. (B) If the tax evaded by the invalid certificate is  $20 or more but less than $200, the offense is a Class B misdemeanor. (C) If the tax evaded by the invalid certificate is  $200 or more but less than $750, the offense is a Class A misdemeanor. (D) If the tax evaded by the invalid certificate is  $750 or more but less than $20,000, the offense is a felony of the  third degree. (E) If the tax evaded by the invalid certificate is  $20,000 or more, the offense is a felony of the second degree. (4) The seller should obtain the properly executed  exemption certificate at the time the transaction occurs. All certificates  obtained on or after the date the comptroller's auditor actually begins  work on the audit at the seller's place of business or on the seller's  records after the entrance conference are subject to verification.  All incomplete certificates will be disallowed regardless of when  they were obtained. The seller has 60 days from the date written notice  is received by the seller from the comptroller in which to deliver  the certificates to the comptroller. Written notice shall be given  by the comptroller upon the filing of a petition for redetermination  or claim for refund. For the purposes of this section, written notice  given by mail is presumed to have been received by the seller within  three business days from the date of deposit in the custody of the  United States Postal Service. The seller may overcome the presumption  by submitting proof from the United States Postal Service or by other  competent evidence showing a later delivery date. Any certificates  delivered to the comptroller during the 60-day period will be subject  to independent verification by the comptroller before any exemptions  will be allowed. Certificates delivered after the 60-day period will  not be accepted and the exemption will not be granted. (5) A seller may accept a blanket exemption certificate  given by a purchaser who purchases only items that are exempt. For  information on blanket exemption certificates received for agricultural  exemptions, see §3.296 of this title. For information on blanket  exemption certificates received for timber items see §3.367 of  this title.  (6) An exemption certificate is not acceptable when  an exemption is claimed because tangible personal property is exported  outside the United States. For proper documentation required for proof  of export, see §3.323 of this title (relating to Imports and  Exports) and §3.360 of this title (relating to Customs Brokers). (7) Exemption certificates are subject to the provisions  of §3.281 of this title (relating to Records Required; Information  Required). A seller is required to keep exemption certificates for  a minimum of four years from the date on which the sale is made and  throughout any period in which any tax, penalty, or interest may be  assessed, collected, or refunded by the comptroller or in which an  administrative hearing or judicial proceeding is pending.  (e) Taxable use of items purchased under an exemption  certificate; improper use of an exemption certificate. (1) When an item purchased under a valid exemption  certificate is used in a taxable manner, whether the use is in Texas  or outside the state, the purchaser is liable for payment of sales  tax based on the value of the tangible personal property or taxable  service for the period of time used. If the exemption certificate  was invalid at the time of its issuance, the purchaser owes tax on  the original purchase price. (2) The value of tangible personal property is the  fair market rental value of the tangible personal property. The fair  market rental value is the amount that a purchaser would pay on the  open market to rent or lease the tangible personal property for use.  If tangible personal property has no fair market rental value, sales  tax is due based upon the original purchase price. (3) The value of a taxable service is the fair market  value of the taxable service. The fair market value is the amount  that a purchaser would pay on the open market to obtain that taxable  service. If a taxable service has no fair market value, sales tax  is due based upon the original purchase price. (4) At any time, the person who purchased tangible  personal property or a taxable service under a valid exemption certificate  and is using the tangible personal property or taxable service in  a divergent taxable manner may stop paying tax on the value of tangible  personal property or taxable service and instead pay sales tax on  the original purchase price. When the person elects to pay sales tax  on the purchase price, credit will not be allowed for taxes previously  paid based on value. (5) Sales tax is not due when a taxable item purchased  under a valid exemption certificate is donated to an organization  exempt from tax under Tax Code, §151.309 or §151.310(a)(1)  or (2), provided the purchaser does not use the donated tangible personal  property or the donated taxable service. (6) This subsection is not applicable when an item  purchased under Tax Code, §151.318 (Property Used in Manufacturing)  is used in a taxable manner. A purchaser who uses such items in a  taxable manner is liable for sales or use tax and should refer to §3.300  of this title (relating to Manufacturing; Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating;  Processing). (f) Content of an exemption certificate. An exemption  certificate must show: (1) the name and address of the purchaser; (2) a description of the item to be purchased; (3) the reason the purchase is exempt from tax; (4) the signature of the purchaser and the date; and (5) the name and address of the seller. (g) Purchases of taxable items by agents of the Federal  Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The FDIC may purchase items  tax-free for use in operating a property or business to which it has  title. An exemption certificate may be issued by the FDIC or by persons  acting as agents for the FDIC when purchasing items that are incorporated  into or used on the property or business being managed. The certificate  must state that the purchases are being made by or for the FDIC. The  FDIC or persons managing property or a business for the FDIC may issue  an exemption certificate when: (1) the FDIC provides documentation to the person managing  the property or business showing that title to the property or business  being managed was transferred to the FDIC; and (2) the FDIC has entered into a written agreement with  the person managing the property or business that designates that  person as its agent and authorizes that person to make purchases on  its behalf. The agreement must be in the person's files for review  by the comptroller. It is not necessary to provide a copy of the agreement  to suppliers. (h) Form of an exemption certificate. An exemption  certificate must be in substantially the form of a Texas Sales and  Use Tax Exemption Certification, Form 01-339 (Back). Copies of the  form may be obtained from the Comptroller of Public Accounts, Tax  Policy Division or by calling 1-800-252-5555. The form is also available  online at https://comptroller.texas.gov/forms/01-339.pdf.
8|§3.288|Direct Payment Procedures and Qualifications|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=288|(a) Qualified consumers may give a direct payment blanket  exemption certificate in lieu of the taxes imposed by the Tax Code,  Chapter 151, for taxable items which they purchase for their own use  and which items will not be resold in any manner.  (b) All applicants for a direct payment permit must  comply with the following conditions, prerequisites, and qualifications.  (1) The applicant must be annually purchasing at least  $800,000 worth of taxable items for the person's own use and not for  resale. A statement to this effect must be submitted to the comptroller.  Adequate records must be available to support this statement. The  statement must accompany the application for a direct payment permit.  (2) The applicant must be able to establish to the  satisfaction of the comptroller that the applicant is a responsible  person and that the applicant's accounting methods clearly distinguish  between taxable and nontaxable purchases. A clear statement of the  accounting method intended to be used must accompany the application  for a direct payment permit.  (3) The applicant must agree to accrue and pay all  taxes imposed by the Tax Code, §151.101, on the direct payment  return for items not specifically exempted and to make the payments  to the state on or before the 20th day of the month following each  monthly period in which the items become subject to the tax by reason  of use or consumption in this state. A written agreement to this effect  must be furnished to the comptroller, and it must be signed and returned  along with the application for a direct payment permit.  (4) The applicant must agree to give a resale certificate  (as opposed to a direct payment exemption certificate) for any taxable  item that will be resold as provided by the Tax Code, §151.054  or §151.104.  (c) Applicants for a direct payment permit should write  to the Comptroller of Public Accounts of the State of Texas, Austin,  Texas 78774, requesting that an application be forwarded to them.  (d) Any consumer whose direct payment permit is either  voluntarily forfeited or canceled by action of the comptroller's office  must immediately notify all vendors from whom purchases of taxable  items are made advising them that the exemption certificate issued  to them pursuant to the direct payment permit is no longer valid.  Failure to give notification is a violation of the Limited Sales,  Excise, and Use Tax Act.  (e) A direct payment permit is issued to a legal entity,  including all branches and divisions purchasing taxable items. A direct  payment exemption certificate issued to a supplier by one branch or  division applies to purchases made by all branches or divisions from  the same supplier. Direct payment permit holders may not authorize  any other person or firm to purchase any taxable items under their  permit. Use by other persons may result in revocation of the permit.  (f) Direct payment exemption certificates may be issued  to contractors performing separated contracts. The contractor, in  this instance, will purchase the taxable items for resale and accept  the direct payment exemption certificate in lieu of charging tax.  The contractor may not accept a direct payment exemption certificate  in lieu of paying tax on consumables or equipment. In addition, under  no circumstances should a direct payment exemption certificate be  issued to a contractor performing a lump-sum contract. Direct payment  permit holders persisting in this practice may have their permits  revoked. For a discussion of lump-sum and separated contracts, see §3.291  of this title (relating to Contractors).  (g) Direct payment permit holders may not issue direct  payment exemption certificates to persons providing nontaxable services.  (h) When a direct payment permit holder is doing business  with a person who may be selling taxable items as well as nontaxable  services, the direct payment exemption certificate must indicate that  it does not cover any nontaxable services that the servicer may provide.  (i) If storage facilities contain taxable items purchased  under a direct payment exemption certificate and at the time of storage  it is not known whether the taxable items will be used in Texas, then  the taxpayer may elect to report the use tax either when the taxable  items are first stored in Texas or are first removed from inventory  for use in Texas, as long as use tax is reported in a consistent manner.  Use tax is not applicable to purchases of taxable items that are  to be transported outside Texas for use solely outside Texas or on  purchases of taxable items that are to be processed, fabricated,  or manufactured into other property or attached or incorporated into  other property and then transported outside Texas for use solely outside  Texas. See §3.325 of this title (relating to Refunds and Payments  under Protest) and §3.338 of this title (relating to Allowance  of Credit for Tax Paid to Suppliers) for refund and credit provisions.  See also §3.346 of this title (relating to Use Tax).  (j) All direct payment permit holders must file direct  payment returns, whether or not they have tax to report. If the permit  holder has no city, MTA/CTD, or county tax to report, a zero return  must be filed. A direct payment permit will be canceled when annual  purchases are less than the amount required. See §3.377 of this  title (relating to Divergent Use of a Direct Payment, Resale, or Exemption  Certificate) and §3.427 of this title (relating to Divergent  Use of a Direct Payment, Resale, or Exemption Certificate).  (k) A blanket exemption certificate described in this  section may be given by qualified consumers in lieu of the tax upon  purchases from their suppliers. Each exemption certificate must be  accompanied by a direct payment permit number.  Attached Graphic (l) The holder of a direct payment permit may not make  an occasional sale of taxable items under the Tax Code, §151.304(b)(1).  See §3.316 of this title (relating to Occasional Sales).
9|§3.289|Alcoholic Beverage Exemptions|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=289|(a) Exemptions. (1) Sales or use tax is not due on charges for admission to  night clubs, dance halls, discos, etc., when the charges are subject to the  mixed beverage gross receipts tax under Tax Code, Chapter 183. If the state  refunds the mixed beverage gross receipts tax that was previously paid on  cover charges, then the cover charges that were not taxed under Tax Code,  Chapter 183, are subject to sales tax as a fee for admission to an amusement  service. For information on amusement services, see §3.298 of this title  (relating to Amusement Services). (2) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of mixed beverages,  including ice or nonalcoholic beverages that are mixed with, or are intended  to be mixed with, alcoholic beverages, and gratuities collected on those sales,  if the receipts are taxable under Tax Code, Chapter 183. If the state refunds  mixed beverage gross receipts tax that was previously paid on mixed beverages,  ice, and nonalcoholic beverages, then sales tax is due on the original sales  price that was not taxed under Tax Code, Chapter 183. (b) Issuance of exemption certificates. Persons who hold mixed  beverage permits, late hour mixed beverage permits, or daily temporary mixed  beverage permits issued by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission are entitled  to issue exemption certificates to their suppliers in lieu of paying sales  tax on the purchase of alcoholic beverages, ice, mixes, and nonalcoholic beverages,  if the receipts from the resale of these items are taxable under Tax Code,  Chapter 183. (c) Resale. Sales of liquor, wine, beer, or malt liquor from  a licensed manufacturer, wholesaler, or distributor to a retailer licensed  under Tax Code, Chapter 183, are presumed to be for resale. No resale certificate  is required. (d) Complimentary drinks. Any person who provides drinks to  others without charge owes sales tax on the cost of the ingredients of the  drinks. (e) Private club permittee. (1) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of mixed beverages,  and gratuities collected in connection therewith, if the beverages are served  on the premises of the clubs to members or their guests and if the receipts  are taxable under Tax Code, Chapter 183. (2) A private club is required to collect sales tax on the  sales price of prepared foods, candy, meals, and other food products prepared,  served, or sold for immediate consumption, whether or not sold in connection  with the serving of alcoholic beverages. Charges for meals or other food products  are subject to sales tax and must be separated from the charges for alcoholic  beverages served to members and guests. For discussion of food and drinks  sold for immediate consumption, see §3.293 of this title (relating to  Food; Food Products; Meals; Food Service). (3) A private club must pay sales or use tax on all supply  items, equipment, and replacement parts that the club uses or consumes in  providing service, except for items that qualify for exemption as manufacturing  items, as explained in §3.300 of this title (relating to Manufacturing;  Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating; Processing). Also see §3.293 of this  title (relating to Food; Food Products; Meals; Food Service). (4) A private club may issue a resale or exemption certificate  in lieu of paying sales tax for the purchase of those items furnished to members  and guests with beverages, food products, or meals served for immediate consumption.  The items must be of a nonreusable nature or qualify for exemption as wrapping  or packaging materials that are used to wrap or package processed food and  beverages. See §3.293 of this title (relating to Food; Food Products;  Meals; Food Service) and §3.314 (relating to Wrapping, Packing, Packaging  Supplies, Containers, Labels, Tags, Export Packers, and Stevedoring Materials  and Supplies). (f) Fraternal and veteran's organizations. (1) Fraternal and veteran's organizations that do not qualify  for a private club exemption certificate may purchase beer, wine, or ale tax  free from a distributor or other retailer only when the organization holds  and maintains a valid retail dealer's on premise license, issued under Texas  Alcoholic Beverage Code, §69.01, or a valid wine and beer retailer's  permit, issued under Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code, §26.01. In addition  to either of the above licenses, the organization must possess and publicly  display a limited sales tax permit as a retailer. When an organization holds  the required license and permit, it must collect sales tax on all taxable  sales of beer, wine, or ale. (2) When a fraternal or veteran's organization that purchases  or sells alcoholic beverages does not hold either of the retail licenses issued  by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission, it must pay sales tax on its purchases  of alcoholic beverages. (g) Certificates required. A seller is required to collect  sales tax on the sale of taxable items, unless the seller accepts, in good  faith, an exemption or resale certificate from the purchaser, or the exception  for resale in subsection (c) of this section applies, or the sale is exempt  because it is subject to mixed beverage gross receipts tax under Tax Code,  Chapter 183. See §3.285 of this title (relating to Resale Certificate;  Sales for Resale) and §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates). Attached Graphic
10|§3.290|Motor Vehicle Repair and Maintenance; Accessories and Equipment Added to Motor Vehicles; Moveable Specialized Equipment|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=290|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Accessories--Nonessential tangible personal property attached to a motor vehicle for the convenience or comfort of the operator or passengers, or to assist or aid in the transportation, loading, or unloading of tangible personal property. Examples include car radio, air conditioner, refrigerator on a meat van, or a concrete mixer. (2) Agreed contract price for materials--The price specified in the contract for the materials plus any additional charges directly attributable to the materials. For example, the cost of transportation of the materials, profit calculated as a percentage of the cost of materials, or markup or handling charges related directly to the materials charge, is included in the agreed contract price. A charge calculated as a percentage of the total contract cost will not be considered a part of the materials' selling price. The agreed contract price of the materials cannot be less than the price the repairman paid for materials. (3) Component--A part of a motor vehicle such as tires, batteries, shock absorbers, and mufflers or a motor vehicle system such as the suspension, electrical, or cooling systems necessary to the proper operation of a motor vehicle and including any part of the chassis or body. (4) Consumable supplies--Tangible personal property, except natural gas and electricity, used directly in a repair operation or in the repair area, which after used for its intended purpose, is completely used up, or which is not retained or reusable by the person providing the service. Consumable supplies do not include office supplies or other tangible personal property used in the general operation of the business. (5) Equipment attachment--A part attached to a motor vehicle which is neither a component, nor an accessory, but which may be cargo that the vehicle transports, such as a welder, crane, compressor, or other type equipment. (6) Extended warranty or service policy--This contract is sold to the buyer of the product for an additional amount. The provisions of the contract become effective after the manufacturer's warranty expires. (7) Install or installation--To set tangible personal property in place for use or service. Install or installation does not include: (A) the removal and/or replacement of a defective or broken part of a motor vehicle; or (B) the addition of tangible personal property causing a change in the motor vehicle that constitutes remodeling. (8) Lump-sum contract--A written agreement in which the agreed price for doing a job is one lump-sum amount and in which the charges for materials are not separate from the charges for skill and labor. Separated invoices issued to the customer will not change a written lump-sum contract into a separated contract unless the terms of the contract require separated invoices. (9) Maintenance--All work on operational and functioning motor vehicles necessary to sustain or support safe, efficient, continuous operations, or to keep in good working order by preventing the decline, failure, lapse, or deterioration of the motor vehicles. (10) Manufacturer's written warranty--A guarantee by the manufacturer that the product at the time of sale is operable and will remain operable for a specified period of time. The manufacturer's warranty is provided without additional cost to the buyer. (11) Motor vehicle--A self-propelled unit designed to transport property separate from itself or persons other than the driver upon the public highways. The term also includes trailers, semi-trailers, and house trailers. A unit which meets the definition of a ""motor vehicle"" does not lose its identity as a motor vehicle if tangible personal property is added to the vehicle allowing the unit to perform a specialized function but prohibits the vehicle from transporting separate property or persons other than the driver. An example of this would be a flatbed truck upon which oil well servicing equipment is attached. All motor vehicles are subject to the provisions of the Tax Code, Chapter 152. (12) Moveable specialized equipment--A unit designed and built specifically to perform a specialized function which does not include transporting property separate from itself or persons other than the driver is not a motor vehicle. Examples of moveable specialized equipment meeting these criteria are motorized cranes, motorized oil well servicing units, and mobile auto crushers. Moveable specialized equipment is subject to the provisions of the Tax Code, Chapter 151. (13) Remodel--To modify the style, shape, or form of motor vehicles belonging to another. (14) Repair--To mend or restore to working order or operating condition a motor vehicle that was broken, worn, damaged, defective, or malfunctioning. (15) Repairman--For the purposes of this section, any person who, operating under a lump-sum or separated contract, restores, repairs, or replaces an inoperable or malfunctioning component of a motor vehicle. (16) Separated contract--A written agreement which is divided into a separately stated price for materials and a separately stated price for skill and labor. If prices of materials and labor are separately stated, the fact that the charges are added together and a sum total given is irrelevant. When the contract itself does not contain specific amounts for materials and labor, but provides that all invoices will separate the charges for materials from the charges for skill and labor, the contract will be regarded as a separated contract. (b) Sale and installation. Except when replacing a defective or inoperative component or accessory, a person engaged in the sale and installation of motor vehicle component parts and accessories must collect sales tax on the price charged for the parts, accessories, and installation. The removal and replacement of defective, worn, or unsafe accessories or components is a repair and not a sale and installation. (1) Except when replacing a defective or inoperative component or accessory, the total charge for the sale and installation of an accessory or a component is subject to tax regardless of whether the charge is lump-sum or separated. (2) The replacement of a defective or inoperative component or accessory is a repair of a motor vehicle. The tax responsibility of the persons repairing motor vehicles is covered in subsections (g) and (h) of this section. The repair of a motor vehicle component or of an accessory is considered the repair of a motor vehicle. (3) The repair of equipment attachments is considered the repair of tangible personal property and is taxed according to §3.292 of this title (relating to Repair, Remodeling, Maintenance, and Restoration of Tangible Personal Property). (c) Manufacturing. The repair and rebuilding of motor vehicle component parts to be sold is manufacturing and the labor charged is subject to tax whether included in the selling price or stated separately. (d) Repair of motor vehicle components or accessories. A person may repair a motor vehicle component or accessory for the general repairman who is performing general repair work on a motor vehicle. (1) If the person repairing the component or accessory separates the price charged for parts from the repair labor, the general repairman may issue a resale certificate for the parts. The repair labor is not taxable. (2) If the person repairing the component or accessory charges one lump-sum amount for the repair of the component or accessory, the person is a lump-sum repairman under subsection (g) of this section. (e) Federal excise tax. The sales price upon which the tax is based must include any manufacturer's federal excise tax. (f) Fuels. Gasoline, LP gas, diesel, and kerosene are exempt from the sales tax. (g) Responsibilities of repairman of motor vehicles operating under lump-sum repair contracts. (1) Labor to repair motor vehicles is not taxable. A person repairing a motor vehicle for a lump-sum price is not a retailer of a taxable item and may not issue a resale certificate for parts or material used or consumed in such repair. (2) Under a lump-sum contract, the repairman is the ultimate consumer of consumable supplies, tools, equipment, and all materials incorporated into the motor vehicle being repaired. The lump- sum repairman must pay the tax to suppliers at the time of purchase. The repairman will not collect tax from customers on the lump-sum charge or any portion of the charge. Under this type of contract, the repairman will pay the tax on materials even when the property is repaired for an exempt customer. (3) A lump-sum repairman may use materials from inventory that were originally purchased tax free by use of a resale certificate. In those instances, the repairman incurs a tax liability based upon the purchase price of the materials and must report and remit the tax to the comptroller. (h) Responsibilities of repairman of motor vehicles operating under separated repair contracts. (1) Materials. Under a separated repair contract, the repairman of a motor vehicle is a retailer and may issue a resale certificate in lieu of tax to suppliers for materials that will be incorporated into the motor vehicle of the customer; the repairman must then collect tax from the customer on the agreed contract price of the materials, which must not be less than the amount the repairman paid to suppliers. The repairman must obtain a tax permit to be able to issue a resale certificate in lieu of tax when materials are purchased. The repairman may also use materials from inventory upon which tax was paid to the supplier at the time of purchase. In these instances, tax will be collected from the customer on the agreed contract price of the materials as if the materials had been purchased with a resale certificate; however, the repairman will remit tax to the comptroller only on the difference between the agreed contract price and the price paid to the supplier. See §3.338 of this title (relating to Multistate Tax Credits and Allowance of Credit for Tax Paid to Suppliers). (2) Labor. Labor to repair motor vehicles is not taxable. (3) Consumable supplies. A repairman of motor vehicles may issue a resale certificate in lieu of tax to suppliers for consumable supplies as well as materials incorporated into the motor vehicle. The repairman of a motor vehicle must then collect sales tax from customers on the charge for consumable supplies as well as the charge for materials. (4) Tools and equipment. A repairman of a motor vehicle is the ultimate consumer of tools and equipment used which are not incorporated into the motor vehicle being repaired. The repairman must pay tax to suppliers of these items at the time of purchase. The repairman may not collect tax from customers on any charges for these items. (5) Exempt customers. In repairing a motor vehicle belonging to an exempt customer under a separated contract, the repairman may accept an exemption certificate in lieu of collecting tax on materials incorporated into the motor vehicle. (i) Responsibilities of remodelers. Remodelers of motor vehicles are providing taxable services and should refer to §3.292 of this title (relating to Repair, Maintenance, and Restoration of Tangible Personal Property). (j) Manufacturer's warranties. (1) No tax is due on parts or labor furnished by the manufacturer to repair a motor vehicle under a manufacturer's warranty or recall campaign. (2) Records must be kept by the repairman that show that the service and parts were used in repairing an item under a manufacturer's warranty or recall. (3) The repairman may purchase parts to be used in repairs under a manufacturer's warranty or recall tax free by issuing an exemption certificate to the supplier. (k) Extended warranties and service contracts. A repairman performing services under an extended warranty covering a motor vehicle must collect tax on the parts as required under subsection (h) of this section. (l) Maintenance. Tax is not due on the labor to maintain motor vehicles. Refer to subsections (g) and (h) of this section for the repairman's responsibilities for tangible personal property used in maintenance. (m) Accessories and equipment added to motor vehicles. (1) The purchase of a motor vehicle and all accessories and equipment attached thereto at the time of sale is subject to the provisions of the Tax Code, Chapter 152 (motor vehicle sales and use tax). (2) The purchase of accessories and equipment for a motor vehicle attached after the time of sale of the motor vehicle is subject to the provisions of the Tax Code, Chapter 151 (limited sales, excise, and use tax). (3) The purchase of tangible personal property is subject to the provisions of the Tax Code, Chapter 151 (limited sales, excise, and use tax), if no item can be identified as a motor vehicle even if the combination of items of tangible personal property becomes a motor vehicle. If items of tangible personal property are combined to produce a motor vehicle, the initial titling of the motor vehicle in the name of the person who produced the motor vehicle is not subject to the provisions of the motor vehicle sales and use tax. If, however, the motor vehicle is titled in any other person's name, the transfer is subject to the provisions of the motor vehicle sales and use tax. (4) For this purpose, the terms ""accessories"" and ""equipment"" include, but are not limited to, bodies, cement mixers, refrigeration units, fertilizer spreaders, and oil well servicing equipment. (n) Use of resale certificate. For the purposes of this section, the words ""leased"" and ""rented"" are defined by the Tax Code, Chapter 152 (motor vehicle sales and use tax law). (1) Items combined into a motor vehicle. A limited sales tax resale certificate may be used in purchasing tangible personal property to be combined into a motor vehicle held for sale, lease, or rental in the purchaser's regular course of business. (2) Accessories and equipment attached to rental or lease motor vehicles. A limited sales tax resale certificate may be used in purchasing accessories and equipment that are attached to a motor vehicle held for sale, rental, or lease in the purchaser's regular course of business."
11|§3.291|Contractors|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=291|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Agreed contract price of materials incorporated into the realty--The price specified in the contract for the incorporated materials, i.e., tangible personal property that becomes a part of the real property, plus any additional charges directly attributable to the incorporated materials. For example, profit that is calculated as a percentage of the cost of materials, cost of transportation of the materials, and markup or handling charges that relate directly to the materials charge are included in the agreed contract price. A charge that is calculated as a percentage of the total contract cost is not considered a part of the agreed contract price of materials incorporated into realty. The agreed contract price of incorporated materials cannot be less than the price that the contractor paid for the materials. (2) Consumable item--Nondurable tangible personal property that is used to improve realty and, after being used once for its intended purpose, is completely used up or destroyed. Examples of consumable items are nonreusable concrete forms, nonreusable drop cloths, barricade tape, natural gas, and electricity. The term ""consumable item"" does not include machinery, equipment, accessories to machinery or equipment, repair or replacement parts for machinery or equipment, or any rented or leased item. (3) Contractor--Any person who builds new improvements to residential or nonresidential real property, completes any part of an uncompleted new structure that is an improvement to residential or nonresidential real property, makes improvements to real property as part of periodic and scheduled maintenance of nonresidential real property, or repairs, restores, maintains, or remodels residential real property, and who, in making the improvement, incorporates tangible personal property into the real property that is improved. The term includes subcontractors but does not include material men, suppliers, or persons who provide taxable real property services. Persons who provide real property services should refer to §3.356 of this title (relating to Real Property Service). Persons who repair, restore, or remodel nonresidential real property are providing taxable services and should refer to §3.357 of this title (relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling, and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance). Persons who repair, restore, or remodel chemical plants or petrochemical refineries should refer to §3.362 of this title (relating to Labor Relating to Increasing Capacity in a Production Unit in a Petrochemical Refinery or Chemical Plant). (4) Equipment--Tangible personal property that a contractor uses that is not a consumable item or an incorporated material. Examples include tools, machinery, implements, and accessories and repair or replacement parts for the equipment. (5) Exempt contract--A contract for the improvement of real property with an entity that is exempted under Tax Code, §151.309 or §151.310. An example of an exempt contract is a contract with a nonexempt entity to improve real property for the primary use and benefit of an organization exempted under Tax Code, §151.309 or §151.310, provided that the improvements relate to the exempt purpose of an organization that is exempted under Tax Code, §151.310(a)(1) or (a)(2). Another example is a contract for development work covered under subsection (d) of this section. See §3.322 of this title (relating to Exempt Organizations). (6) Improvements to realty--See §3.347 of this title (relating to Improvements to Realty). (7) Incorporated materials--Tangible personal property that becomes a part of any building or other structure, project, development, or other permanent improvement on or to such real property including tangible personal property that, after installation, becomes real property by virtue of being embedded in or permanently affixed to the land or structure constituting realty and which property after installation is necessary to the intended usefulness of the building or other structure. (8) Lump-sum contract--A contract in which the agreed contract price is one lump-sum amount and in which the charges for incorporated materials are not separate from any charges for skill and labor, including fabrication, installation, and other labor that the contractor performs. For example, guaranteed-maximum contracts are considered lump-sum contracts when the charges for incorporated materials and the charges for skill and all labor are not separately stated. Contracts to improve realty that do not break out all charges for labor, including fabrication labor, are considered lump-sum contracts. For example, a contractor who fabricates and incorporates cabinets into realty under a contract that includes the fabrication labor in the agreed contract price of materials is a lump-sum contractor. Contracts to improve realty that have a zero charge for materials or for labor are considered lump-sum contracts. Separated invoices issued to the customer will not change a lump-sum contract into a separated contract unless the terms of the contract require separated invoices. (9) New construction--All new improvements to real property, including initial finish-out work to the interior or exterior of the improvement. An example is a multiple story building that has had only its first floor finished and occupied. The initial finish-out of each additional floor before initial occupancy or use is new construction. New construction also includes the addition of new usable square footage to an existing building. Examples include the addition of a new wing onto an existing building. Reallocation of existing square footage inside a building is remodeling and does not constitute the addition of new square footage. For example, the removal or relocation of interior walls to expand the size of a room or the finish out of an office space that was previously used for storage is remodeling. Raising the ceiling of a room or the roof of a building is not new construction if new usable square footage is not created. (10) Ready mix concrete contractor--A contractor who manufactures or produces concrete for construction purposes and incorporates the concrete into the property improved. (11) Sale and installation of tangible personal property--Includes a contract to furnish and install machinery, equipment, or other tangible property that is not essential to the building or structure, nor adapted or intended to become a part of the realty, but which incidentally may, on account of its nature, be temporarily attached to the realty without loss of its identity as a particular piece of machinery, equipment, or property and, if attached, is readily removable without substantial damage to the unit or realty or without destruction of the intended usefulness of the realty. (12) Residence or residential property--Property that is used as a family dwelling, a multifamily apartment or housing complex, nursing home, condominium, or retirement home. The term includes homeowners association-owned and apartment-owned swimming pools that are for the use of the homeowners or tenants, laundry rooms for tenants\' use, and other common areas for tenants\' use. The term does not include hotels or any other facilities that are subject to the hotel occupancy tax. (13) Separated contract--A contract in which the agreed contract price is divided into a separately stated agreed contract price for incorporated materials and a separately stated amount for all skill and labor that includes fabrication, installation, and other labor that is performed by the contractor. If prices of incorporated materials and labor are separately stated in any part of the contract or in a document that becomes part of the contract according to the terms of the contract, adding the charges together to give a sum total does not change the contract into a lump-sum contract. For example, a contract that requires separated invoices is a separated contract. Cost-plus contracts are considered separated contracts if the cost of labor is separately stated from the cost for incorporated materials. (b) Tax responsibilities of contractors who improve real property of nonexempt customers. (1) Equipment. A contractor must pay sales tax at the time of purchase, lease, or rental on the sales price of equipment used to perform a contract. A contractor must accrue and remit use tax on the sales price of equipment purchased, leased, or rented for use in Texas from an out-of-state seller unless the out-of-state seller collected Texas use tax. See §3.346 of this title (relating to Use Tax). Texas allows a credit against Texas use tax when the same property is subject to a legally imposed sales or use tax of another state. See §3.338 of this title (relating to Multistate Tax Credits and Allowance of Credit for Tax Paid to Suppliers). (2) Consumable item. Except as provided by subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, a contractor must pay tax at the time of purchase on consumable items that are not physically incorporated into the customer\'s property. (A) A contractor may not collect tax from the customer on a charge for consumable items except as provided by subparagraph (B) of this paragraph. (B) A contractor who has a separated contract may issue a properly completed resale certificate to a supplier in lieu of tax for consumable items if title to the consumable items transfers to the contractor\'s customer at or before the time that the contractor takes possession of the consumable items, and further if the consumable items are immediately marked, labeled, or otherwise physically identified as the customer\'s property, when practicable. The contractor must separately state the charge for these consumable items to the customer and must collect sales tax from the customer, unless the customer qualifies for exemption under Tax Code, §151.309 or §151.310, or under other provisions that grant the customer exemption from sales tax on its purchases. See §3.322 of this title (relating to Exempt Organizations). (3) Lump-sum contracts. (A) A contractor who performs lump-sum contracts owes tax on all materials, consumable items, equipment, taxable services, and other taxable items that are used by the contractor or incorporated into a customer\'s property. The contractor must pay tax to suppliers when the contractor purchases, leases, or rents the taxable items. The contractor must accrue and remit use tax on taxable items that are purchased, leased, or rented from an out-of-state seller unless the out-of-state seller collected and gave the contractor a receipt for Texas use tax. The contractor shall not collect from a customer any amount represented to be tax on a lump-sum charge or on any portion of the charge except as provided under subparagraph (E) of this paragraph. A lump-sum contractor must refund to the customer any tax that is collected in error or the contractor must remit the tax to the state. The contractor may not retain such tax. (B) A contractor who, in addition to performing lump-sum contracts, sells, leases, or rents taxable items at retail or performs separated contracts may maintain a tax-free inventory of items that are held for resale. A contractor who, in addition to performing lump-sum contracts, performs nonresidential real property repair, restoration, and remodeling services and resells taxable items as part of those taxable services may also maintain a tax-free inventory of items that are held for resale. See §3.357 of this title (relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling, and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance). A contractor may issue a properly completed resale certificate instead of paying tax on items that are purchased for a tax-free inventory when the contractor does not know at the time of purchase whether the item will be resold or used in the performance of a lump-sum contract. A contractor must hold a sales tax permit to issue a resale certificate, and must collect, report, and remit tax to the comptroller as required by §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller\'s and Purchaser\'s Responsibilities) when the contractor sells, leases, or rents taxable items. A contractor who separately states a charge for equipment that the contractor uses is not renting that equipment to the customer. (C) A contractor who purchases taxable items under a valid resale certificate and uses the items in a taxable manner owes sales or use tax on the items. For example, a contractor who incorporates materials from a tax-free resale inventory into realty under a lump-sum contract must accrue and remit tax based on the purchase price of the materials. The contractor must remit the tax to the comptroller for the reporting period in which the materials were used. A contractor who purchases items that are specifically intended for use in a lump-sum contract may not issue resale certificates in lieu of tax for such items. See §3.285 of this title (relating to Resale Certificates; Sales for Resale). (D) A contractor may not accept a direct payment exemption certificate when the contractor performs a lump-sum contract for a person who holds a direct payment permit. The lump-sum contractor owes tax on all taxable items that are used on the job or that are incorporated into the direct payment permit holder\'s realty. A direct payment permit holder may not authorize a contractor or any other person to purchase tax free any taxable item through use of the direct payment permit holder\'s permit. See §3.288 of this title (relating to Direct Payment Procedures and Qualifications). Cont\'d...', '(E) A ready mix concrete contractor must separate the charge for the concrete from other charges associated with the contract, and invoice the customer for each yard of concrete produced and consumed for the improvement of real property. The ready mix concrete contractor may issue a resale certificate in lieu of paying sales tax on taxable items (e.g., processed materials) incorporated into the concrete. The ready mix concrete contractor must collect and remit the tax due on the concrete produced and consumed. The tax rate in effect at the job site location is applied to the greater of the actual invoice price of the component materials or the fair market value of the concrete incorporated into the project. For the purposes of this subparagraph, fair market value is the amount that a purchaser would pay on the open market for concrete. The fair market value will be determined on a case by case basis, taking into consideration relevant factors such as cost of component materials, location of job site, volume, and prices charged by other concrete contractors in the area. Contracts entered into prior to September 1, 2007, are excluded from the requirements of this subparagraph provided the contract terms do not allow for the pass-through of taxes by the ready mix concrete contractor to the purchaser for the duration of the contract period. This subparagraph does not apply to ready mix concrete contractors providing concrete for a public works project. (4) Separated contracts. (A) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a contractor who performs a separated contract is a retailer of all materials that are physically incorporated into the realty that is being improved. As a retailer, the contractor must collect tax from the customer based upon the agreed contract price of the incorporated materials. The tax rate must be applied to the agreed contract price of materials, or to the price of the materials to the contractor, whichever is greater. A contractor who performs a separated contract is also a retailer of taxable services that are sold under the provisions of subparagraph (D) of this paragraph, and of consumable items that are sold under the provisions of paragraph (2)(B) of this subsection. The contractor may accept a properly completed resale or exemption certificate from a customer who claims an exemption. (B) A contractor who performs a separated contract must hold a sales tax permit and collect, report, and remit the tax as required by §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller\'s and Purchaser\'s Responsibilities). A contractor who purchases taxable items for resale as part of a separated contract may issue resale certificates to suppliers in lieu of tax. See §3.285 of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale). A contractor may not issue a resale certificate and must pay tax on the purchase, rental, or lease of equipment that is intended for use in the performance of a contract. (C) A contractor may maintain a tax-paid inventory of materials. If the contractor incorporates tax-paid materials into realty under a separated contract or sells them at retail or transfers the materials to a customer as part of a taxable service, then the contractor must collect tax from the customer based upon the agreed contract price of the materials or upon the sales price of the taxable service. The contractor may claim a credit for tax paid on materials resold to customers. The contractor must remit tax to the comptroller on any difference that exists between the price that the customer paid and the price that the contractor paid. (D) A contractor who performs separated contracts may issue properly completed resale certificates in lieu of tax on taxable services that the contractor resells to its customers. Examples include landscaping, surveying, security services (alarm systems), that are incorporated into the customer\'s realty, and the final clean-up (janitorial services) of the construction site. The charges for taxable services that are resold to the customer must be separated from the charges for incorporated materials and other charges, and the contractor must collect tax from the customer on charges for the taxable services and incorporated materials. A contractor who performs a separated contract may not issue a resale certificate for a taxable service that the contractor uses or consumes, such as a security service to secure the job site, telecommunication service, and daily clean-up (janitorial service or garbage collection and removal) of the construction site. A contractor who performs residential new construction should refer to paragraph (7) of this subsection. (E) A contractor who improves realty for a direct payment permit holder may accept a properly completed direct payment exemption certificate in lieu of tax on all tangible personal property that is incorporated into the direct payment permit holder\'s realty. The contractor owes tax on equipment the contractor purchases, rents, or leases for use in the performance of the contract with a direct payment permit holder. See §3.288 of this title (relating to Direct Payment Procedures and Qualifications). A contractor who performs a separated contract may not accept a direct payment exemption certificate in lieu of tax on consumable items unless paragraph (2)(B) of this subsection applies. A contractor who performs a separated contract may accept a direct payment exemption certificate in lieu of tax on taxable services only under the circumstances set out in paragraph (4)(D) of this subsection. (5) Contracts versus bids and change orders. For tax purposes, the terms of a contract control over the terms of a bid. For example, if the bid is lump-sum but the written contract is separated, then the contract determines the tax responsibilities of the parties, and the customer is liable for tax on incorporated materials. The terms of a contract also control change orders. If the contract is lump-sum, then change orders will be treated as lump-sum even if the change orders show charges for incorporated materials separate from other charges. If the contract is separated and change orders are for lump-sum amounts, then the lump-sum amounts will be treated as charges for incorporated materials unless the contractor can reasonably demonstrate the portion attributable to labor. (6) Different types of contracts between contractors and subcontractors. For tax purposes, subcontractors are not required to use the same type of contract as the general contractor. For example, a general or prime contract may be lump-sum, while some or all subcontracts may be separated. Each subcontractor\'s individual contract governs the subcontractor\'s tax responsibilities. In the example given, the subcontractors with separated contracts must collect sales tax from the general contractor. The general contractor must not collect any tax from the general contractor\'s customer. When the general or prime contract separately states labor and incorporated materials but some of the subcontracts are lump-sum, the prime or general contractor should treat the lump-sum charges as part of its separately stated labor charge and should not collect tax from the prime contractor\'s customer on those charges from lump-sum subcontractors. (7) Real property services. A contractor is not required to pay tax on real property services that are purchased as part of the construction of a new residential structure or as part of an improvement that is located immediately adjacent to the new structure and that is used in the residential occupancy of the structure. The contractor must issue a properly completed exemption certificate or other acceptable documentation to the service provider. If the comptroller subsequently determines that the work is taxable, then the contractor will be liable for all taxes, penalties, and interest that accrue upon such purchases. For the purposes of this paragraph, ""contractor"" includes a builder, developer, speculative builder, or other person who acts as a builder to improve residential real property. (8) Materials that customers provide. A contract may specify that a customer will provide materials and that the person who performs improvements will provide the skill and labor that are necessary to incorporate the materials into realty. Under this type of contract, the person who provides the skill and labor will not incur tax liability on the materials. The customer is liable for the tax on the materials and must pay tax at the time of purchase of the materials. (9) Noninstalled items. A person who manufactures an item for sale but who is not responsible for the incorporation of the item into realty is a manufacturer who is subject to the provisions of §3.300 of this title (relating to Manufacturing; Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating; Processing). For example, cabinet makers who do not affix the cabinets to realty are manufacturers and not contractors. (10) Local tax. A contractor\'s responsibility for local sales and use taxes depends on the type of contract entered into with the customer. (A) A contractor who has entered into a separated contract with the customer must collect local taxes on the charge for materials based on the location of the job site. (B) A contractor who has entered into a lump-sum contract with the customer is the consumer of all materials used to perform a lump-sum contract. (i) The lump-sum contractor should pay tax to suppliers on all materials at the time of purchase, unless the contractor maintains a valid tax-free inventory or holds a direct pay permit. (ii) When the local sales taxes collected by the supplier are less than the 2.0% local tax cap, additional local use taxes are due based on the location where the goods are first stored or used. Local use tax is not due if the supplier collected a local sales tax for the same type of taxing jurisdiction. (iii) When a lump-sum contractor has items shipped to the jobsite from outside of Texas, the contractor is responsible for accruing local taxes based on the location of the jobsite. (iv) The lump-sum contractor must accrue local use tax based on the purchase price of the taxable item. The local use tax is due in the reporting period in which the item was first stored, used, or otherwise consumed in a local taxing entity. (11) Enterprise projects and defense readjustment projects. In order for an enterprise project or a defense readjustment project to avail itself of certain sales tax refunds, the project must enter into a separated contract, and the charges for items that qualify for enterprise project or defense readjustment project refunds must be separately stated. A contractor who performs a separated contract must collect sales tax from the project on the sales price of the incorporated materials. See §3.329 of this title (relating to Enterprise Projects, Enterprise Zones, and Defense Readjustment Zones). (12) Manufacturing facilities. For a manufacturer to qualify for sales tax exemptions on manufacturing equipment that is installed under a contract to improve real property, the manufacturer must enter into a separated contract. Additionally, the contract must separately state the charge for the qualifying manufacturing equipment. See §3.300 of this title (relating to Manufacturing; Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating; Processing). (c) Tax responsibilities of contractors who perform lump-sum and separated contracts for exempt organizations. (1) Exemption certificates and other required proof of exemption. A contractor must obtain properly completed exemption certificates to document exempt contracts. Written contracts or written purchase orders that are issued by governmental entities exempted under Tax Code, §151.309, are acceptable documentation of exempt contracts. (2) Contractor liability. (A) A contractor may claim an exemption under Tax Code, §151.311, on a purchase of a taxable item for use under a contract to improve realty for an organization that is exempt under Tax Code, §151.309 or §151.310. If the comptroller subsequently determines that the organization is not exempt, then the contractor is liable for all taxes, penalties, and interest that accrue upon such purchase. If the validity of a claimed exemption or the exempt status of the customer is unclear, then the contractor may not accept the exemption certificate in good faith and should request additional evidence of the exempt status of the contract. If the customer claims to be an exempt organization, then a letter of sales and use tax exemption from the comptroller that is addressed to the customer relieves the contractor from further inquiry regarding the exempt status of the customer. See §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates). (B) A contract with a private party to improve real property owned by an exempt entity, other than a governmental entity described in Tax Code, §151.309, is not an exempt contract if the improvement to real property is for the primary use and benefit of the private party. However, a contractor in a non-exempt contract may purchase tax free tangible personal property that is used to improve real property owned by a governmental entity described in Tax Code, §151.309, if that tangible personal property is donated to the governmental entity and if the following conditions are satisfied: (i) the contract between the contractor and the private party is a separated contract. See subsection (b) of this section for a discussion of lump-sum and separated contracts; (ii) the contract provides that title to the materials used to perform the contract passes to the private party when the materials are delivered to the job site but before they are incorporated into the realty or used by either the contractor or the private party; and Cont\'d...', ""(iii) the contract provides that the private party intends to donate the materials to the governmental entity before the materials are incorporated into the realty or used by the contractor. The private party must provide the contractor with a letter of intent or other document from the governmental entity that states its intent to accept the property. (3) Materials that exempt customers provide. A contract may specify that the exempt customer will provide the materials and the contractor will provide the skill and labor that are necessary to perform the contract. Under this type of contract, the contractor will not incur tax liability on the materials. The exempt customer may issue exemption certificates to suppliers in lieu of tax when purchasing the materials. Materials that are incorporated into real property improvements that are not related to the exempt purpose of the customer exempt under Tax Code, §151.310(a)(1) or (2), are taxable. In this situation, the exempt customer must pay tax to suppliers when purchasing the materials. See also §3.322 of this title (relating to Exempt Organizations). (4) Exempt items. The following items are exempt from sales and use tax when purchased for use in the performance of an exempt contract: (A) tangible personal property that is incorporated into the realty; (B) consumable items that are necessary and essential to the contract and are completely consumed at the job site; and (C) taxable services that are performed at the job site and are: (i) expressly required by the exempt contract to be provided or purchased by the contractor; or (ii) integral to the performance of the exempt contract. (5) Contractor's exemption or resale certificate. A contractor who performs a lump-sum or separated contract may issue a properly completed exemption certificate to a supplier for the purchase of exempt items that are identified in paragraph (4) of this subsection. The certificate must be properly completed and identify the contractor as the purchaser, the exempt entity for whom the improvements are made, and the project for which the items are being purchased. See §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates). A contractor may choose to issue a properly completed resale certificate when purchasing materials that will be incorporated into the customer's realty under a separated contract. (6) Equipment. All machinery and equipment, including repair and replacement parts and accessories, that a contractor uses to perform contracts for any exempt entity are taxable. A contractor who purchases, rents, or leases equipment for use on a contract to improve realty for an exempt entity must pay tax on that purchase, rental, or lease. (d) Development work. For the purposes of this subsection, development work means a contract with a private party to improve real property by building public infrastructure, such as roads or sewer lines, provided that the improvements are dedicated to and will be accepted by a governmental entity. To qualify as an exempt contract, the private party must dedicate the realty and the improvements to the governmental entity before the work begins, and the governmental entity must accept or conditionally accept the realty and the improvements."
12|§3.292|Repair, Remodeling, Maintenance, and Restoration of Tangible Personal Property|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=292|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Chapter 160 boat--A vessel not more than 65 feet  in length, measured from the tip of the bow in a straight line to  the stern, that is not a canoe, kayak, rowboat, raft, punt, inflatable  vessel, or other watercraft designed to be propelled by paddle, oar,  or pole, and that is subject to tax under Tax Code, Chapter 160 (Taxes  on Sales and Use of Boats and Boat Motors). (2) Commercial vessel--A vessel that displaces eight  or more tons of fresh water before being loaded with fuel, supplies,  or cargo, and that is:  (A) used exclusively and directly in a commercial or  business enterprise or activity, including, but not limited to, commercial  fishing; or (B) used commercially for pleasure fishing by individuals  who are paying passengers.  (3) Consumable supplies--Tangible personal property  that is used by a service provider to repair, remodel, maintain, or  restore tangible personal property belonging to another; is not transferred  into the care, custody, and control of the purchaser of the service;  and, having been used once for its intended purpose, is completely  used up or destroyed. Examples of consumable supplies include, but  are not limited to, canned air used to remove dust from equipment  and solvents used to clean equipment parts.  (4) Extended warranty or service policy--A contract  sold to the purchaser of tangible personal property for an amount  in addition to the charge for the tangible personal property, or sold  to an owner of tangible personal property, to extend the terms of  the manufacturer\'s written warranty or provide a warranty in addition  to or in place of the manufacturer\'s written warranty. (5) Fabricate--To make, build, create, produce, or  assemble components of tangible personal property, or to make tangible  personal property work in a new or different manner.  (6) Maintain--To perform maintenance.  (7) Maintenance--Work performed on operational and  functioning tangible personal property that is necessary to sustain  or support safe, efficient, continuous operation of the tangible personal  property, or is necessary to keep the tangible personal property in  good working order by preventing decline, failure, lapse, or deterioration.  (8) Manufacturer\'s written warranty--A manufacturer\'s  guarantee made for no additional charge to the purchaser of an item  of tangible personal property that the item is operable and will remain  operable for a specified period of time. (9) Processing--The physical application of the materials  and labor necessary to modify or to change the characteristics of  tangible personal property. The repair of tangible personal property,  belonging to another, by restoring it to its original condition is  not considered processing of the tangible personal property. The mere  packing, unpacking, or shelving of tangible personal property to be  sold is not considered to be processing of the tangible personal property.  Processing does not include remodeling.  (10) Remodel--To modify or remake tangible personal  property belonging to another in a similar but different manner, or  to change the style, shape, or form of tangible personal property  belonging to another, without causing a loss of its identity or without  causing it to operate in a new or different manner. Remodeling does  not include processing.  (11) Repair--To mend or restore to working order or  operating condition tangible personal property that was broken, damaged,  worn, defective, or malfunctioning.  (12) Restore--To return tangible personal property  that is still operational and functional, but that has faded, declined,  or deteriorated, to its former or original state.  (13) Service provider--A person who repairs, remodels,  maintains, or restores tangible personal property belonging to another.  (14) Vessel--A watercraft, other than a seaplane on  water, used, or capable of being used, for navigation and transportation  of persons or property on water. The term includes a ship, boat, watercraft  designed to be propelled by paddle or oar, barge, and floating dry-dock.  (15) Warrantor--A person who has a contractual obligation  for a specified period of time to repair, remodel, maintain, or restore  tangible personal property belonging to another.  (b) Taxability of services to repair, remodel, maintain,  or restore tangible personal property. (1) General rule. Except as otherwise provided in this  section, service providers who repair, remodel, maintain, or restore  tangible personal property belonging to another are providing taxable  services. A service provider is a seller and must obtain a sales and  use tax permit and collect and remit sales and use tax as provided  in §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller\'s and Purchaser\'s  Responsibilities, including Nexus, Permits, Returns and Reporting  Periods, and Collection and Exemption Rules). Sales or use tax is  due from the purchaser on the entire charge for a service to repair,  remodel, maintain, or restore tangible personal property, including  any separately stated charge for materials, parts, labor, consumable  supplies, or equipment. In addition, the purchaser owes sales or use  tax on any charge connected to the taxable service, including separately  stated charges for inspecting, monitoring, or testing. (A) Aircraft. Service providers who repair, remodel,  maintain, or restore aircraft should refer to §3.280 of this  title (relating to Aircraft). (B) Motor vehicles. Service providers who remodel motor  vehicles are providing taxable services and are covered by this section.  Service providers who repair, maintain, or restore motor vehicles  should refer to §3.290 of this title (relating to Motor Vehicle  Repair and Maintenance; Accessories and Equipment Added to Motor Vehicles;  Moveable Specialized Equipment).  (C) Vessels. Service providers who repair, remodel,  maintain, or restore a vessel that is a Chapter 160 boat, sports fishing  boat, or any other boat used for pleasure, and that is not a commercial  vessel, are providing taxable services and are covered by this section.  Service providers who repair, remodel, maintain, or restore commercial  vessels should refer to §3.297 of this title (relating to Carriers,  Commercial Vessels, Locomotives and Rolling Stock, and Motor Vehicles).  (D) Locomotives and rolling stock. Service providers  who repair, remodel, maintain, or restore locomotives or rolling stock  should refer to §3.297 of this title.  (E) Exempt equipment. A service to repair, remodel,  maintain, or restore tangible personal property that, if sold, leased,  or rented at the time the service is performed, would be exempt under  Tax Code, Chapter 151 (Limited Sales, Excise, and Use Tax) due to  its nature or its use is exempt from sales and use taxes. Tax is due  on the sale of services to repair, remodel, maintain, or restore tangible  personal property that was exempt at the time of purchase but would  not be exempt at the time the service is performed. For example, services  to repair, remodel, maintain, or restore the following tangible personal  property will not qualify for exemption based solely on the fact that  such tangible personal property was exempt at the time of its purchase;  (i) tangible personal property purchased from an organization  exempted from paying sales or use tax under Tax Code, §151.309  (Governmental Entities) or §151.310 (Religious, Educational,  and Public Service Organizations);  (ii) tangible personal property exempted from use tax  because sales tax was paid on the purchase;  (iii) tangible personal property acquired tax-free  in a transaction qualifying as an occasional sale under Tax Code, §151.304  (Occasional Sales), or as a joint ownership transfer exempted under  Tax Code, §151.306 (Transfers of Common Interests in Property).  See §3.316 of this title (relating to Occasional Sales; Transfers  Without Change in Ownership; Sales by Senior Citizens\' Organizations;  Sales by University and College Student Organizations; and Sales by  Nonprofit Animal Shelters) and §3.331 of this title (relating  to Transfers of Common Interests in Tangible Personal Property; Intercorporate  Services); or  (iv) tangible personal property purchased tax-free  during a sales tax holiday as provided by §3.353 of this title  (relating to Sales Tax Holiday--Certain Emergency Preparation Supplies), §3.365  of this title (relating to Sales Tax Holiday--Clothing, Shoes and  School Supplies) or §3.369 of this title (relating to Sales Tax  Holiday--Certain Energy Star Products, Certain Water-Conserving Products,  and WaterSense Products).  (2) Resale certificates.  (A) A service provider may issue a properly completed  resale certificate instead of paying sales or use tax on the purchase  of tangible personal property that is integral to repairing, remodeling,  maintaining, or restoring tangible personal property belonging to  another and is transferred to the care, custody, and control of the  purchaser of the taxable service. See §3.285 of this title (relating  to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale).  (B) A person holding tangible personal property for  sale, lease, or rental may issue a properly completed resale certificate  in lieu of paying sales or use tax on the purchase of labor and tangible  personal property used to repair, remodel, maintain, or restore that  tangible personal property. Refer to §3.285 of this title and §3.294  of this title (relating to Rental and Lease of Tangible Personal Property).  (3) A service provider working under an agreement that  provides that the purchaser of the service will furnish the tangible  personal property required for the service must collect sales or use  tax on the charge for the service.  (4) A service provider may accept a properly completed  exemption certificate instead of collecting sales or use tax when  performing a taxable service for a purchaser who is exempt from sales  and use tax under Tax Code, Chapter 151, or when performing services  on tangible personal property that is exempt from sales and use tax.  Refer to §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates). (c) Consumable supplies and equipment. Sales or use  tax must be paid by the service provider on consumable supplies and  equipment that are purchased for use in the performance of a service  that are not transferred to the care, custody, and control of the  customer.  (d) Warranties. For information on warranties for the  repair of motor vehicles, refer to §3.290 of this title. For  information concerning warranties for the repair of aircraft, refer  to §3.280 of this title.  (1) Manufacturer\'s written warranty or recall campaign.  No sales or use tax is due on tangible personal property or labor  furnished by the manufacturer to repair tangible personal property  under a manufacturer\'s written warranty or recall campaign.  (A) Records must be kept by the service provider to  document that the service and tangible personal property were used  in repairing an item under a manufacturer\'s written warranty or recall  campaign.  (B) The service provider may purchase tangible personal  property to be used in repairs under a manufacturer\'s written warranty  or recall campaign tax-free by issuing an exemption certificate to  the seller.  (2) Extended warranty or service policy.  (A) Sales or use tax is due on the sale of an extended  warranty or service policy.  (B) The warrantor may issue a resale certificate in  lieu of paying sales or use tax on the purchase of taxable items used  in performing the services covered by the contract as long as the  taxable items are integral to performing the service and the taxable  items are also transferred to the care, custody, and control of the  purchaser.  (C) If the warrantor uses a third-party service provider  to perform the service, the third-party service provider may accept  a resale certificate from the warrantor in lieu of sales or use tax.  (D) The warrantor must collect sales or use tax on  any charge to the purchaser for labor or tangible personal property  not covered by the extended warranty or service policy.  (E) If the warrantor uses a third-party service provider  to fulfill the warranty and the service provider charges the warrantor  or the purchaser for tangible personal property or labor not covered  under the warranty, the service provider must collect sales or use  tax on such charges.  (3) Replacements and reimbursements.  (A) Trade-in. If the warrantor is a seller of tangible  personal property, and if the terms of a manufacturer\'s or extended  warranty agreement provide for either the replacement or the repair,  remodeling, maintenance, or restoration of tangible personal property,  then tangible personal property accepted by the warrantor under the  terms of the warranty in exchange for, or towards the purchase of,  tangible personal property of the type sold by the warrantor in the  regular course of business will be considered a trade-in. The provisions  of Tax Code, §151.007(c)(5) (""Sales Price"" or ""Receipts"")  apply to such a transaction and any amount or credit provided for  the trade-in reduces the taxable amount of the sale of the replacement  item.  Cont\'d...', '(B) The sale of a contract that provides that a warrantor  will reimburse a purchaser for payments made to replace, repair, remodel,  maintain, or restore faulty, damaged, lost, or stolen tangible personal  property, including the amount of any sales and use tax, is not taxable.  In addition, the amount reimbursed to the purchaser of the faulty,  damaged, lost, or stolen tangible personal property by the warrantor  under such a contract is not taxable.  (e) Services performed on real property. Persons who  build new improvements to real property, or repair, restore, or remodel  residential real property belonging to others, should refer to §3.291  of this title (relating to Contractors). Persons who repair or remodel  nonresidential real property belonging to others should refer to §3.357  of this title (relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling,  and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance). (f) Fabricating or processing tangible personal property.  Persons who fabricate or process tangible personal property belonging  to another should refer to §3.300 of this title. (g) Exemption for disaster areas.  (1) Labor to repair, restore, remodel, or maintain  tangible personal property is exempt if:  (A) the amount of the charge for labor is separately  stated from any charge for tangible personal property on the invoice,  contract, or similar document provided by the service provider to  the purchaser; and  (B) the service is performed on tangible personal property  that was damaged within a disaster area by the condition that caused  the area to be declared a disaster area.  (2) The exemption does not apply to tangible personal  property transferred from the service provider to the purchaser as  part of the repair.  (3) In this subsection, ""disaster area"" means:  (A) an area declared a disaster area by the Governor  of Texas under Government Code, Chapter 418 (Emergency Management);  or  (B) an area declared a disaster area by the President  of the United States under 42 United States Code, Chapter 68 (Disaster  Relief)."
13|§3.293|Food; Food Products; Meals; Food Service|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=293|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Bakery--A retail location where more than 50% of  sales made are sales of bakery items sold from a display case or counter  and consumed off the premises. A retail location is a premise occupied  temporarily or permanently by the seller where the seller holds or  handles bakery items for retail sale. The term includes a table, booth,  or other space rented or leased by a seller within a multi-seller  marketplace. (2) Bakery items--Bread, rolls, buns, biscuits, bagels,  croissants, pastries, doughnuts, Danish pastries, cakes, tortes, pies,  tarts, muffins, bars, cookies, tortillas, and similar items. The term  does not include candy, snack items, sandwiches, tacos, or pizzas.  (3) Bulk vending machine--A device that contains unsorted  items and randomly dispenses goods in approximately equal amounts  without selection of a particular item or type of item by the customer.  (4) Candy--A confection made with natural or artificial  sweeteners. Examples include: candy bars; gum; drops; taffy; nuts,  raisins, and fruits that have been candied, crystalized, glazed, or  coated with chocolate, yogurt, or caramel; and nuts roasted with a  sweetener. The term does not include products used exclusively for  cooking, such as chocolate bits and cake sprinkles.  (5) Combine--To join two or more food products into  a single item.  (6) Eating utensils--Tableware implements for cutting  or eating food, or an object used as a container intended for drinking.  Examples include trays, plates, knives, forks, spoons, glasses, cups,  chop sticks, or straws.  (7) Food and food ingredients--Substances, whether  in liquid, concentrated, solid, frozen, dried, or dehydrated form,  that are sold for ingestion or chewing by humans and are consumed  for taste, aroma, or nutritional value. (A) Food and food ingredients include food products  intended for human consumption, such as the following: cereal and  cereal products; milk and milk products, butter, and yogurt; oleomargarine;  meat and meat products; poultry and poultry products; fish and fish  products; eggs and egg products; vegetables and vegetable products;  fruit and fruit products; spices, condiments, and salt; sugar products;  coffee and coffee substitutes; tea; juice (if more than 50% fruit  or vegetable juice by volume); cocoa and cocoa products; canned foods;  snack items; or any combination of these.  (B) Food products do not include:  (i) alcoholic beverages;  (ii) cigarettes, tobacco, or tobacco products;  (iii) candy;  (iv) ice;  (v) water; or  (vi) drugs, medicines, tonics, vitamins, dietary supplements,  and medicinal preparations in any form. For further information about  drugs, medicines, and dietary supplements, see §3.284 of this  title (relating to Drugs, Medicines, Medical Equipment and Devices).  (8) Food ready for immediate consumption--Food, drinks,  or meals prepared, served, or sold by restaurants, lunch counters,  hotels, cafeterias, delis, mobile vendors, or other like places of  business, that, when sold, require no further preparation by the purchaser  prior to consumption; and food sold through vending machines. A grocery  store or convenience store that contains a restaurant, lunch counter,  deli, or other similar location is a like place of business selling  food ready for immediate consumption, but only for items sold at that  location.  (9) Food sold through vending machines--Food dispensed  from a machine or other mechanical device that accepts payment.  (10) Mix--To blend two or more food items together  into a single item that is more or less a uniform whole, but each  ingredient may or may not retain its identity (e.g., potato salad,  coleslaw or seafood salad).  (11) Mobile vendor--A person who sells food from a  motor vehicle, push cart, or any other form of vehicle.  (12) Prepared food--Prepared food means: (A) food ready for immediate consumption;  (B) food sold in a heated state or heated by the seller;  (C) food sold with eating utensils provided by the  seller; or  (D) two or more food ingredients mixed or combined  by the seller for sale as a single item, including items that are  sold by weight or volume as a single item, but does not include food  that is prepared at an off-site location, refrigerated food that is  typically reheated prior to eating, or food that is only cut, repackaged,  or pasteurized by the seller.  (13) Retirement facility--A facility that provides  permanent housing and residence to individuals, a majority of whom  are 60 years of age or older.  (14) Snack items--Snack items means:  (A) breakfast bars, granola bars, nutrition bars, sports  bars, protein bars, and yogurt bars, unless they are labeled and marketed  as candy;  (B) snack mix and trail mix;  (C) nuts, but not including pine nuts or nuts that  have been candied, crystalized, glazed, coated with chocolate, yogurt,  or caramel, or roasted with a sweetener;  (D) popcorn;  (E) chips, crackers, hard pretzels, pork rinds, and  corn nuts;  (F) sunflower seeds and pumpkin seeds;  (G) ice cream, sherbet, and frozen yogurt; and  (H) ice pops, juice pops, sorbet, and other frozen  fruit items containing not more than 50 percent fruit juice by volume.  (15) Soft drinks--Packaged carbonated and non-carbonated  non-alcoholic beverages that contain natural or artificial sweeteners. (A) The term includes mixes that when combined with  water become soft drinks, and bottled and canned teas and coffees  that contain natural or artificial sweeteners. (B) The term does not include beverages that contain  milk or milk products, soy, rice, or similar milk substitutes, or  juices that contain more than 50% vegetable or fruit juice by volume.  (b) Sales of exempt food products or water. (1) Food and food ingredients are exempt from sales  tax unless otherwise taxable under subsection (c) of this section. (2) Water is exempt as explained in §3.318 of  this title (relating to Water-Related Exemptions). (c) Taxable sales. The following are subject to sales  tax:  (1) sales of soft drinks;  (2) sales of candy;  (3) sales of ice;  (4) sales of beer, wine, and other alcoholic beverages  unless subject to mixed beverage gross receipts tax and mixed beverage  sales tax under Tax Code, Chapter 183 (Mixed Beverage Taxes), or prepared  and served by a person holding an airline beverage permit, passenger  train permit, or passenger bus permit issued by the Texas Alcoholic  Beverage Commission;  (5) sales of cigarettes and other tobacco products;  (6) vending machine sales of food, soft drinks, and  candy as explained in subsection (d) of this section;  (7) sales of prepared food as defined in subsection  (a)(12) of this section, other than bakery items which are addressed  in paragraph (8) of this subsection, including:  (A) all food ready for immediate consumption sold by  caterers, mobile vendors, or restaurants, fast food outlets, lunch  counters, cafeterias, delis, hotels, and other like places of businesses;  and  (B) all sandwiches ready for immediate consumption,  including refrigerated triangle-type sandwiches such as ham, cheese,  tuna, egg salad, or chicken salad, but not sales of sandwiches that  are frozen or partially frozen and that require thawing or heating  by the customer prior to consumption;  (8) sales of bakery items at a place of business other  than a bakery when sold:  (A) in a heated state; (B) with plates or other eating utensils that the seller  hands to the customer or the seller places on a tray or plate for  the customer; or  (C) in conjunction with a taxable meal for which plates  or other eating utensils are provided, even if the seller makes a  separate charge for the bakery item. For example, a roll served in  a restaurant with a meal is taxable even if the roll is served in  a napkin rather than directly on the plate; and  (9) sales of snack items sold in individual-sized portions. (A) A snack item is sold in an individual sized-portion  if the snack item:  (i) is labeled as having not more than one serving;  or  (ii) contains less than 2.5 ounces.  (B) Snack items do not include items sold in prepackaged  units containing more than one package. For example, a box containing  6 prepacked, single-serving bags of nuts is not a snack item.  (d) Vending machine sales. Except as provided in subsection  (e) of this section, food, candy, and soft drinks sold through vending  machines are taxable. The sales tax is determined as follows:  (1) Soft drink and candy vending machine sales. The  vending machine operator must remit sales tax on the total gross receipts  from sales of soft drinks and candy without any deduction for spoilage,  waste, or other losses.  (2) Food product vending machine sales. The vending  machine operator must remit sales tax on 50% of the total gross receipts  from sales of food products without any deduction for spoilage, waste,  or other losses. Examples of food products include snack items, milk,  tea, coffee, and juice if more than 50% vegetable or fruit juice by  volume.  (3) Water, including bottled water, spring water, sparkling  water, or mineral water, is exempt from sales tax. A vending machine  operator is not required to remit sales tax on the receipts from sales  of water. Flavored water (carbonated or non-carbonated) is a soft  drink and a vending machine operator must remit tax on the total gross  receipts for vending machines sales of flavored water.  (4) A vending machine operator must place a sign on  the vending machine stating that the vended price includes sales tax.  If sales tax is included in the price of the taxable item, the vending  machine operator may back out the amount of the tax before reporting  the taxable sales on the sales tax return. See §3.328 of this  title (relating to Optional Reporting Methods for Grocers and Other  Vendors).  (e) Exempt vending machine sales.  (1) Bulk vending machine sales. Food, gum, candy, and  toys sold for $0.50 or less from a bulk vending machine, as defined  in subsection (a)(3) of this section, are exempt from sales tax. A  bulk vending machine operator that has only exempt bulk vending machine  sales may choose to obtain a sales tax permit and file sales tax returns  so that the operator is able to purchase the gum, candy, or toys tax  free for resale by giving the supplier a properly completed resale  certificate. If a vending machine operator has both taxable vending  machine receipts as explained in subsection (d) of this section, and  exempt bulk vending machine sales as explained in this subsection,  the operator must keep detailed records showing which items are dispensed  from the bulk vending machines.  (2) Sales through vending machines operated by certain  non-profit organizations.  (A) The sale of tangible personal property through  a vending machine is exempt from the taxes imposed by this chapter  if:  (i) the sale is made by a nonprofit organization that  is exempt from federal income taxation under Section 501(a), Internal  Revenue Code of 1986, by being listed as an exempt organization in  Section 501(c)(3) of that code;  (ii) the machine is owned by the nonprofit organization;  and  (iii) the machine is stocked and maintained by individuals  with special needs as part of an independent life skills and education  program operated by the nonprofit organization.  (B) A nonprofit organization that makes a sale exempt  from taxation under this section must maintain records demonstrating  that the sale is eligible for the exemption.  (f) Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP).  Food, candy, snack items, and soft drinks are exempt if purchased  with SNAP benefits (including a Texas Lone Star debit card) under  SNAP (7 U.S.C. Chapter 51) if the item can legally be purchased with  SNAP benefits. A seller should apply the amount of SNAP benefits against  the purchase of qualifying taxable items first so that the individual  receives the best possible benefit from SNAP. (g) Food sale exemptions. Certain organizations may  sell prepared food, candy, snack items, and soft drinks tax-free.  These tax-free sales are not counted against the two one-day, tax-free  sales allowed to certain exempt nonprofit organizations under §3.322  of this title (relating to Exempt Organizations). Tax is due on sales  of alcoholic beverages by exempt nonprofit organizations.  (1) Sales of food, prepared food, soft drinks, snack  items, or candy by a church or at a function of the church are exempt.  "", ""(2) Sales of food, prepared food, soft drinks, snack  items, or candy sold or served by public or private elementary or  secondary schools, school districts, bona fide student organizations,  booster club or other school support organization, or parent-teacher  organizations and associations are exempt if the items are sold or  served during a regular school day pursuant to an agreement with the  proper school authorities. This exemption includes food, soft drinks,  snack items, and candy sold through vending machines.  (3) Sales of food, prepared food, soft drinks, snack  items, or candy by a parent-teacher organization or association during  a fund-raising sale are exempt if the proceeds do not go to the benefit  of an individual.  (4) Sales of food, prepared food, soft drinks, snack  items, or candy by a group associated with a private or public elementary  or secondary school are exempt if the sale is part of a fund-raising  drive sponsored by the organization for its exclusive use.  (5) Sales of food, prepared food, soft drinks, snack  items, or candy during an event sponsored or sanctioned by an elementary  or secondary school or school district at a concession stand operated  by a booster club or other school support organization formed to support  the school or school district are exempt, but only if the proceeds  from the sales benefit the school or school district.  (6) Sales of food, prepared food, soft drinks, snack  items, or candy by a member or volunteer for a nonprofit organization  devoted to the exclusive purpose of education or religious or physical  training of persons under 19 years of age are exempt if the sale is  part of a fund-raising drive sponsored by the organization for its  exclusive use.  (7) Sales of food, prepared food, soft drinks, snack  items, or candy served by hospitals, day care centers, summer camps,  or other institutions licensed by the state for the care of humans  are exempt if sold or served to the patients, children, students,  or residents of the facility. Sales of prepared food, soft drinks,  snack items sold in individual-sized portions, and candy to visitors  or employees of the facility are taxable. Persons confined in correctional  facilities operated under the authority, jurisdiction, or under a  contract with the State of Texas or its political subdivisions are  not exempt and must pay sales tax when they purchase taxable items  such as prepared food, candy, snack items in individual-sized portions,  soft drinks, and taxable items sold from vending machines. Meals and  beverages served without charge to inmates confined in correctional  facilities are not taxable.  (8) Food, prepared food, soft drinks, snack items,  or candy sold or served by a retirement facility to its permanent  residents are exempt. Sales of taxable items to visitors or employees  of the facility are taxable.  (h) Responsibilities of sellers of taxable food and  beverages.  (1) A seller must collect sales tax on all taxable  sales. The seller is required to obtain a sales tax permit, file sales  tax returns and remit the tax to the comptroller. See §3.286  of this title (relating to Seller's and Purchaser's Responsibilities,  including Nexus, Permits, Returns and Reporting Periods, and Collection  and Exemption Rules).  (2) A seller must collect sales tax on the total sales  price of taxable items, including separately stated charges for preparing,  serving, or delivering taxable items, charges for the room or facility  in which the meals and beverages are served, and charges for the cost  or expense of items such as reusable tables, chairs, tableware, and  tablecloths used by the seller in providing the food service. Reusable  items that are used by the food service provider (not rented to the  customer) may not be purchased tax free for resale.  (A) A cash discount (including a discount coupon) allowed  by a seller reduces the sales price of a taxable item, and the seller  should collect sales tax on the actual amount paid by the customer  for the discounted meals or beverages. For example, a seller should  charge sales tax on the price of the single meal when accepting a  discount coupon that allows the customer to purchase two meals for  the price of one.  (B) Separately stated charges for mandatory tips or  gratuities may be excluded from the sales price if the charges meet  the criteria for exclusion as explained in §3.337 of this title  (relating to Gratuities). Voluntary tips or gratuities left by customers  for food service employees are not subject to sales tax.  (3) A seller of taxable items must keep accurate records  that clearly identify sales of exempt items and sales of taxable items.  The records must separately state charges for the exempt items from  the charges for taxable items. Examples of records include sales invoices,  receipts, and cash register coding records. If a seller's records  do not clearly identify exempt sales from taxable sales, all sales  are presumed taxable.  (4) A seller must pay sales or use tax on the purchase,  lease, or rental of all taxable items unless otherwise exempt under  the law. Examples of equipment and supply items taxable to a food  service business include, but are not limited to, tables, chairs,  reusable place mats, tablecloths, cloth napkins, silverware, dishes,  dispensers such as salt and pepper shakers and glass creamers, garbage  cans and garbage can liners, janitorial items such as mops and mop  holders, grill bricks, aprons, menus and menu inserts, and hand tools  such as cooking utensils, cutting knives, and lime squeezers.  (5) A seller may give a resale certificate to a supplier  for the tax-free purchase of items that are transferred to the customer  with the food or beverages. Such items must not be reusable by the  seller to qualify for the sale for resale exemption. See §3.285  of this title (relating to Resale Certificates; Sales for Resale).  Persons who process food for sale qualify for an exemption on the  wrapping and packaging used to package the food for sale and may give  an exemption certificate to a supplier. See §3.314 of this title  (relating to Wrapping, Packing, Packaging Supplies, Containers, Labels,  Tags, Export Packers, and Stevedoring Materials and Supplies). Examples  of items qualifying for exemption include disposable paper products,  wooden, plastic, and aluminum products that are transferred to the  customer. Other examples include cake boxes, lunch boxes, disposable  cups, paper and plastic containers, bottle wraps, butter chip trays,  disposable paper or plastic plates, plastic knives, forks, and spoons,  paper napkins, soda straws, toothpicks, french fry boxes, stir sticks,  ice cream sticks, disposable souffle cups, hot dog trays, and other  types of disposable trays.  (6) A person processing food for sale is a manufacturer  and may claim a sales or use tax exemption on purchases of equipment  and other taxable items that qualify for exemption under Tax Code, §151.318.  For example, a restaurant may claim an exemption on the purchase of  an oven or a mixer directly used in baking or mixing. See §3.300  of this title (relating to Manufacturing; Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating;  Processing) for further information regarding these exemptions. The  exemption in Tax Code, §151.317 for natural gas and electricity  used in manufacturing is not applicable when the gas or electricity  is used to prepare or store prepared food.  (7) As a matter of convenience, a food service business,  such as a restaurant selling prepared food, may sell prepared food  tax free to a food service employee immediately before, during, or  immediately after the employee's shift. This provision applies to  employees involved in preparing or serving food at the food service  location.  (i) Universities, colleges, junior colleges, or other  institutions of higher learning. Universities and colleges are required  to collect sales tax on taxable sales as explained in subsection (c)  of this section. If a charge for meals is not separately stated and  is included in a lump-sum price to a student for room and board, sales  tax is due on the portion of the lump-sum charge attributable to the  taxable meals.  (j) Hotels and other places that provide sleeping accommodations.  Persons that provide sleeping accommodations to the public, including  motels, tourist houses, lodging houses, inns, rooming houses, bed  and breakfast places, must collect hotel occupancy tax under Tax Code,  Chapter 156.  (1) A hotel must collect tax on prepared food.  (2) If the charges for prepared food are not separately  stated and are billed with the lodging as a lump-sum price, then hotel  occupancy tax, not sales tax, is due on the lump-sum charge. See §3.162  of this title (relating to Hotel Occupancy Tax Base and Collection  of the Tax).  (3) A hotel is not required to collect sales tax on  a separately stated charge for use of a hotel meeting room if the  charge is unrelated to the sale, provision, or service of prepared  food or the sale of other taxable items such as an admission charge  for a taxable amusement service. See §3.298 of this title (relating  to Amusement Services). The charge for the meeting room is subject  to hotel occupancy tax if the meeting room is located in the hotel  building where sleeping accommodations are provided.  (4) A hotel is required to pay sales tax on its purchase  of taxable items (e.g., prepared food purchased from a caterer, soft  drinks, candy, ice) provided to guests free of charge as complimentary  items. However, a hotel is not required to accrue and pay sales tax  on its purchase of exempt food products (loaves of bread, milk, cereal,  fruit) even if provided to guests as free complimentary items.  (k) Caterers.  (1) Caterers are persons engaged in the business of  preparing and serving meals, drinks, or other food products at locations  designated by customers. A caterer is a seller of prepared food and  beverages and must collect sales tax on all charges billed in connection  with the sale of taxable meals.  (2) A caterer owes tax on the purchase, lease, or rental  of such items as tables, chairs, tablecloths, steam tables, and table  decorations used in providing catered meals. A caterer may claim a  resale exemption on the purchase of nonreusable items transferred  to customers and a manufacturing exemption on qualifying equipment,  such as mixers, used to prepare the food. See §3.300 of this  title for information on qualifying equipment.  (3) If a caterer uses a room or facility in a hotel  that is subject to hotel occupancy tax, the caterer is required to  pay the occupancy tax to the hotel. There is no resale exemption for  hotel occupancy tax. In addition, a caterer must collect sales tax  on a separately stated charge passed on to the customer for the cost  or expense of the room (including the occupancy tax) when billed to  a customer as part of the taxable sale of catered meals.  (l) For information on the responsibilities of persons  who sell and serve mixed alcoholic beverages, see §3.289 of this  title (relating to Alcoholic Beverage Exemptions).  (m) Grocery stores and convenience stores. Subject  to the exemptions described in subsection (b) of this section, grocery  stores and convenience stores should collect sales tax on the items  listed in subsection (c) of this section. Taxable items include ice,  candy, packaged soft drinks, and prepared food. Food and drinks sold  in a heated state, fountain drinks, and food sold with eating utensils  are considered to be prepared food ready for immediate consumption  regardless of the location in the store from which the food is sold.  Other food or drinks that can be immediately consumed and that are  sold by a restaurant, lunch counter, deli, or other similar location  within the store are also considered to be taxable prepared food.  For example, a bottle of unsweetened iced tea sold at a grocery store  deli is considered to be ready for immediate consumption and is taxable.  However, a bottle of unsweetened iced tea sold at the checkout lane  of a grocery store is not considered to be food ready for immediate  consumption and is not taxable."
14|§3.294|Rental and Lease of Tangible Personal Property|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=294|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Financing lease-- (A) A written lease contract containing either of the following provisions or conditions at the inception of the contract: (i) title to the property must be transferred to the lessee at the end of the lease; or (ii) an option to purchase the property at a nominal price is available to the lessee at the end of the lease (a price is nominal which is, at the time the contract is executed, estimated to be less than 10% of the fair market value of the property at the time the option is to be exercised). (B) A written lease contract containing either of the following provisions or conditions at the inception of the contract will be presumed to be a financing lease: (i) the lease term is equal to 75% or more of the estimated economic life of the property and the contract makes no provisions for the return of the property to the lessor. For used property, this section does not apply if the beginning of the lease term falls within the last 25% of the total estimated economic life of the lease property; or (ii) the residual value of the leased property is less than 10% of the property's fair market value at the inception of the lease and the contract makes no provisions for the return of the property to the lessor. (C) The presumption outlined in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph that the contract is a financing lease may be rebutted by showing that the contract is not merely a security device, that the property will be usable for its intended purpose at the end of the lease term, and that the lessor in good faith intends to reclaim possession of the property at the end of the lease term or to sell the property at the fair market value or to lease it for its fair market rental value. (2) Lease or rental--A transaction, by whatever name called, in which possession but not title to tangible personal property is transferred for a consideration. In this section, the words lease and rental are used interchangeably. (3) Operator--A person who actively guides, drives, pilots, or steers tangible personal property. A person who provides maintenance, repair, or supervision only is not an operator for the purposes of this section. (4) Operating lease--A lease contract which gives the lessee use of the leased property for a certain period. For the purposes of the sales and use taxes, a written contract in the legal form of a lease will be treated as an operating lease unless it meets the definition of a financing lease. All oral leases will be treated as operating leases. (b) Leases. Tax must be collected from the lessee on all charges contained in the lease unless the charge is separately stated and is nontaxable as provided by this section. See subsection (f) of this section for imposition of tax and time for reporting. (c) Tangible personal property leased with and without an operator. (1) Receipts from the lease of tangible personal property without an operator are taxable. (2) The furnishing of tangible personal property with an operator for which a single charge is made to the customer shall be presumed to be the performance of a service and no tax may be charged to the customer, unless the service is taxable under other provisions of the Tax Code, Chapter 151. Sales or use taxes will be due on the original purchase price of the tangible personal property. (A) The presumption set forth in subsection (c)(2) of this section may not be rebutted solely by one party to the transaction. The presumption may be rebutted by the following criteria which establish a lease of tangible personal property: (i) the customer exercised direct control or supervision over the operator of the tangible personal property; and (ii) the intent of the agreement was to lease a piece of tangible personal property and separately furnish an operator. (B) If it is established that a lessor who made a single charge to customers did in fact make a lease of tangible personal property, the tax will be due on the fair market rental value of the tangible personal property. If this cannot be determined, the tax will be due on the total charge reduced by the charge attributable to the operator determined from lessor's records. If the charge for the operator cannot be determined from the lessor's records or if it seems unreasonable, the comptroller will make a determination of a reasonable operator charge. (3) A transaction in which tangible personal property is furnished with an operator, and the customer is charged separately for tangible personal property and operator, shall be presumed to be the lease of tangible personal property and the separate furnishing of an operator; the receipts from the separate charge for the tangible personal property are taxable. The separate charge for the operator will not be taxable unless a taxable service is being provided. (A) If a nontaxable service is being provided and it is established that the separate charge for the lease of tangible personal property is lower than the tangible personal property's fair market rental value, sales tax will be assessed on the fair market rental value unless the lessor presents convincing evidence to the comptroller as to why the rental charge should be lower than fair market rental value. (B) If it is established that a lessor who separated charges for tangible personal property and operator nevertheless used the tangible personal property to perform a service, sales tax will be assessed on the fair market rental value if the property was purchased under a valid resale certificate. See subsection (j) of this section. (d) Other charges related to lease agreements. Operating and financing lease agreements and related billings may contain a variety of charges in addition to the basic rental/lease charges, including charges that occur subsequent to the rental. All charges related to a lease agreement are taxable unless excluded from tax by this section. Some of these charges and their tax consequences are as follows. (1) Separately stated charges for labor or services rendered in installing, applying, remodeling, servicing, maintaining, or repairing the item being leased are subject to tax. (2) Damage waiver fees are subject to tax. A charge after the rental for repair to the damaged rental item is subject to tax as a taxable service. See §3.292 of this title (relating to Repair, Remodeling, Maintenance, and Restoration of Tangible Personal Property). Charges for items destroyed or lost by a lessee are not taxable. However, if a lessee is required to purchase an item damaged by the lessee, the charge for the damaged item is taxable. (3) All transportation charges billed by the lessor to the lessee related to the leased property are taxable. Charges for transportation billed directly to the lessee by third-party carriers are not taxable. See §3.303 of this title (relating to Transportation and Delivery Charges). (4) Charges in the lease agreement for labor, such as charges for supervision, set-up, hook-up, assembly or disassembly, erection, and dismantling, are included in the lease price and are taxable. (5) A charge imposed for the early termination of the lease is included in the lease price and is taxable. (6) Under an operating lease, any interest charges will be taxable whether or not separately stated unless the interest charge is clearly imposed for late payment or other defaults under the lease. (7) Under a financing lease, charges for interest by the lessor to the lessee will be taxable unless the rate of interest or the actual interest charged is separately stated in a contract, invoice, billing, sales slip, or ticket to the customer. (e) Tangible personal property rented for use on residential and nonresidential jobs. (1) Persons renting equipment for use in the performance of contracts to construct new nonresidential real property or to construct, repair, or remodel residential real property owe tax to the equipment rental company. Tax may not be collected from their customers on a separately stated charge for this reimbursable expense item even if the equipment charges to the customer are separately stated from operator charges. See §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors). (2) Persons renting equipment for use in the performance of contracts to repair or remodel nonresidential real property owe tax to the equipment rental company. Tax must also be collected from their customers on the total charge for the job including the amount paid for the equipment rental. (3) When both remodeling and new construction are being performed under the same contract, the tax to be collected from customers on the rental charges should be determined as provided by §3.357(b)(7) of this title (relating to Labor Relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling, Restoration, Maintenance, New Construction, and Residential Property). (f) Imposition of taxes; time for filing; credits. (1) Leases subject to sales tax. (A) An operating lease executed while the property is within the state is subject to sales tax. Tax will be due on the total lease amount for the entire term of the lease regardless of where the property is used if the lessee takes delivery in the state. Any renewal of the contract, extensions, or options exercised while the tangible personal property is outside the state will not be subject to Texas tax unless the property reenters the state. (B) A financing lease executed while the property is within the state is subject to sales tax if the lessee takes delivery in the state. Tax will be due on the total amount of the contract regardless of where the property received in Texas is used during the lease. (2) Leases subject to use tax. Property brought or shipped into the state for use under the terms of a financing lease or an operating lease will be presumed to be subject to use tax. See §3.346 of this title (relating to Use Tax). The use tax will be due on the lease price for the entire term of an operating lease regardless of where the initial contract was executed. Credit will be allowed against any sales or use tax legally imposed and paid to another state. See §3.338 of this title (relating to Multistate Tax Credits and Allowance of Credit for Tax Paid to Suppliers). (3) Method and time for filing reports. (A) Under an operating lease, a lessor must report the rental charges in the period in which they are considered income under the lessor's method of reporting. Under the accrual method of reporting, the rental charges are considered income when the lease amount becomes due under the rental agreement. If the lessor does not collect the tax, the lessee must report the tax in the period in which each lease amount becomes due under the rental agreement. (B) Under a financing lease, the lessor must collect all tax due under the lease at the time the lessee takes possession of the property or when first payment is due from the lessee, whichever is earlier. Tax must be reported on or before the 20th day of the month following the reporting period in which the tax is collected. If the lessor does not collect the tax, the lessee must report the tax due when the lessee takes possession of the property or when first payment is due, whichever is earlier. (C) An out-of-state lessor deriving rental receipts from tangible personal property located in Texas is engaged in business in Texas and is required to collect Texas use tax. Under an operating lease, the use tax must be reported by the lessee if the lessor fails to collect it. The tax must be reported by the lessee based upon the lessee's accounting method used for regular books and records. Under a financing lease, the use tax must be reported by the lessee when the lessee takes possession of the property or when the first payment is due, whichever is earlier. (g) Sales of leased property under operating leases; credit allowed. (1) When a lessee buys the property that the lessee was renting under the terms of an operating lease and the lessor allows credit against the sales price for all or part of the lease payments previously made by the lessee on the same property, tax is not due on the amount allowed as credit if the lessor has collected and remitted tax on the prior rental payments. The lessor must collect the tax on the balance of the sales price based on its method of accounting for sales and use tax purposes. (2) When the lessor sells property to a third party who was not the lessee of that property and allows the third party credit against the sales price for all or part of the lease payments previously made by the former lessee, tax may not be refunded on the amount allowed as credit. The lessor must also collect and report the tax on the sales price of the property to the third party based on its method of accounting for sales and use tax purposes. (h) Assignment of lease payments under operating leases. A lessor may factor or assign to a third party the lessor's right to receive all lease payments due under the agreement with the lessee. At the time the lease agreement is factored or assigned, tax is due on all lease amounts not yet reported. The lessor is responsible for reporting the tax to the comptroller's department in the report period the lease agreement is assigned or factored. No deduction in the amount of tax due and payable by the lessor is allowed if a transfer at a discount is made to a third party. No tax liability is incurred by the purchaser of the lease agreement. This section does not apply to the pledge of lease contracts by a lessor to a third party as loan collateral under the terms of a bona fide loan agreement. "", '(i) Assignment of lease payments and property under operating leases. A lessor may assign to a third party the lessor\'s right to receive all lease payments due under an agreement with the lessee and, in the same transaction, transfer title to the property covered by the lease. At the time the operating lease contract is assigned and title to the property is transferred to the third party, the third party purchaser must begin collecting and remitting tax on the full amount of the taxable rental charges remaining in the lease. The third party purchaser may issue a resale certificate to the lessor as provided by subsection (j) of this section. Tax must be reported by the third party purchaser as provided by subsection (f)(3)(A) of this section. (j) Sales for resale; resale certificates. (1) The purchaser of property which is to be held for lease within the United States of America, its territories and possessions, or within the United Mexican States may issue a resale certificate in lieu of the sales or use tax at the time of purchase. Mexican retailers who purchase for resale must show their Federal Taxpayers Registry (RFC) identification number for Mexico on the resale certificate and give a copy of their Mexican Registration Form to the Texas seller. However, if the lessor subsequently uses the property in any manner other than the leasing of it, or display or demonstration of it, the lessor becomes liable at the time of the use for sales tax based on the fair market rental value for the period of time used. The fair market rental value is the amount that a lessee would pay on the open market to rent the item for use. If the fair market rental value of the property cannot be ascertained, tax is due on the original purchase price of the property. (2) At any time, the lessor using the property purchased under a resale certificate may stop paying tax on the fair market rental value and instead pay sales tax on the original purchase price. When the lessor elects to pay sales tax on the purchase price, credit will not be allowed for taxes previously paid on the fair market rental value. See §3.285 of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale). (3) A resale certificate may be issued by a retailer for a repair or replacement part, accessory, or equipment that will be attached to a motor vehicle to be rented or leased under the provisions of the Tax Code, Chapter 152. In this paragraph, the terms ""rental"" and ""lease"" are defined by the Tax Code, Chapter 152, rather than by subsection (a)(2) of this section. (k) Lease of real property with tangible personal property. (1) If a contract for the lease or rental of real property includes the lease or rental of tangible personal property (such as furniture) as part of the agreement, no sales tax is due on the amount charged the tenant for the lease or rental of the tangible personal property. A resale certificate may not be issued and sales or use tax must be paid at the time the tangible personal property is purchased. (2) Sales or use tax is due on the separate lease or rental of tangible personal property by a person or entity not owning or managing the real property in which the tangible personal property is or will be situated. A resale certificate may be issued in lieu of paying the tax at the time of purchase of the tangible personal property for subsequent lease or rental. (l) Other taxes. For information pertaining to tax on motor vehicle rental receipts, refer to sections promulgated under the Motor Vehicle Sales and Use Tax Act. (m) Local tax. For proper collection and allocation of city and transit sales taxes, see §3.374 of this title (relating to Collection and Allocation of the City Sales Tax) and §3.424 of this title (relating to Collection and Allocation of Transit Sales Tax)."
15|§3.295|Natural Gas and Electricity|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=295|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Crime control and prevention district--A district  organized under Local Government Code, Chapter 363 (Crime Control  and Prevention Districts), located within the boundaries of a municipality  that imposes a sales and use tax on the residential use of natural  gas and electricity.  (2) Electric utility--Any entity owning or operating  for compensation in this state equipment or facilities for producing,  generating, transmitting, distributing, selling, or furnishing electricity  whose rates for the sale of electric power are set by the Public Utilities  Commission under the Public Utility Regulatory Act. The term does  not include:  (A) a qualifying small power producer or qualifying  co-generator, as defined in the Federal Power Act, §3(17)(D)  and §3(18)(C), as amended (16 United States Code §796(17)(D)  and §796(18)(C)); or  (B) any person not otherwise a public utility that  owns or operates in this state equipment or facilities for producing,  generating, transmitting, distributing, selling, or furnishing electric  energy to an electric utility, if the equipment or facilities are  used primarily for the production and generation of electric energy  for the person's own consumption.  (3) Fabrication--To make, build, create, produce, or  assemble components of tangible personal property, or to make tangible  personal property work in a new or different manner.  (4) Fire control, prevention, and emergency services  district--A district organized under Local Government Code, Chapter  344 (Fire Control, Prevention, and Emergency Medical Services Districts),  located within the boundaries of a municipality that imposes a sales  and use tax on the residential use of natural gas and electricity.  (5) Manufacturing--Every operation commencing with  the first stage of production of tangible personal property and ending  with the completion of tangible personal property. The first production  stage means the first act of production and it does not include acts  in preparation for production. For example, a manufacturer gathering,  arranging, or sorting raw material or inventory is preparing for production.  When production is completed, maintaining the life of tangible personal  property or preventing its deterioration is not a part of the manufacturing  process. Tangible personal property is complete when it has the physical  properties, including packaging, if any, that it has when transferred  by the manufacturer to another. Also see §3.300 of this title  (relating to Manufacturing; Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating; Processing). (6) Processing--The physical application of the materials  and labor necessary to modify or to change the characteristics of  tangible personal property. The property being processed may belong  either to the processor or the customer, the only tests being whether  the property is processed and whether it will ultimately be sold.  Direct use of natural gas or electricity in processing will be referred  to as exempt use. Processing does not include remodeling or any action  taken to prolong the life of tangible personal property or to prevent  a deterioration of the tangible personal property being held for sale.  The repair of tangible personal property belonging to another by restoring  it to its original condition is not considered processing of that  property. The mere packing, unpacking, or shelving of a product to  be sold will not be considered to be processing of that product.  (7) Remodeling--To make tangible personal property  belonging to another over again without causing a loss of its identity,  or without causing the property to work in a new or different manner.  (8) Residential use--Use of natural gas or electricity  in a building or the portion of a building occupied as a residence  and includes:  (A) use by the owner of a home, apartment complex,  housing complex, condominium, campground, recreational vehicle park,  nursing home, or retirement home occupied by the owner as a residence;  (B) use by a tenant in a home, apartment complex, housing  complex, condominium, campground, recreational vehicle park, nursing  home, or retirement home occupied by the tenant as a residence under  a contract for an express initial term of more than 29 consecutive  days. Absent a contract, only the period exceeding 29 consecutive  days will be considered residential use, when supported by valid documentation  (i.e., receipts, canceled checks, etc.); and  (C) use for common areas of an apartment complex, housing  complex, condominium, campground, recreational vehicle park, nursing  home, retirement home, or homeowners' association, such as use for  a recreation room, swimming pool, security gate, or for street lights  and exterior lighting in a walkway or parking area.  (D) Residential use does not include use in health  care or detention facilities, including hospitals, rehabilitation  centers, substance abuse treatment centers, psychiatric facilities,  prisons, jails, or other detention centers, or use by the owner or  operator of a health care or detention facility.  (9) Tenant--A person who is authorized by a lease to  occupy a dwelling to the exclusion of others and who is obligated  under the lease to pay rent. The term does not include a patient or  inmate of a health care or detention facility, including a hospital,  rehabilitation center, substance abuse treatment center, psychiatric  facility, prison, jail, or other detention center.  (b) State and local sales and use taxes applicable.  The furnishing of natural gas or electricity is a sale of tangible  personal property and presumed to be taxable. All the provisions in  Tax Code, Chapters 151 (Limited Sales, Excise and Use Tax), 321 (Municipal  Sales and Use Tax Act), 322 (Sales and Use Taxes for Special Purpose  Taxing Authorities), and 323 (County Sales and Use Tax Act) applying  to the sale of tangible personal property, apply to the sale of natural  gas or electricity. (c) Exempt uses of natural gas and electricity. Except  as provided in subsection (d) of this section, an exemption for natural  gas and electricity applies to state and local sales and use taxes  imposed by Tax Code, Chapters 151, 321, 322, and 323. Natural gas  and electricity are exempted from sales and use taxes when sold for:  (1) residential use;  (2) use in agriculture, including dairy or poultry  operations and pumping for farm or ranch irrigation;  (3) direct or indirect use or consumption, including  electricity lost in the lines, by an electric utility engaged in the  purchase of electricity for resale;  (4) use in timber operations, including pumping for  irrigation of timberland;  (5) direct use in:  (A) powering equipment that qualifies for exemption  under Tax Code, §151.318 (Property Used in Manufacturing) or §151.3185  (Property Used in the Production of Motion Pictures or Video or Audio  Recordings and Broadcasts), (including equipment that is permanently  affixed to or incorporated into realty) to process tangible personal  property for sale as tangible personal property, other than preparation  of or the storage of prepared food, as defined in §3.293 of this  title (relating to Food; Food Products; Meals; Food Service);  (B) lighting, cooling, and heating in the manufacturing  area during the actual manufacturing or processing of tangible personal  property for sale as tangible personal property, other than preparation  or storage of prepared food;  (C) exploring for, producing, or transporting a material  extracted from the earth;  (D) electrical processes, such as electroplating, electrolysis,  and cathodic protection;  (E) the off-wing processing, overhaul, or repair of  a jet turbine engine or its parts for a certificated or licensed carrier  of persons or property;  (F) providing, under contract with or on behalf of  the United States government or foreign governments, defense or national  security-related electronics, classified intelligence data processing  and handling systems, or defense-related platform modifications or  upgrades;  (G) the repair, maintenance, or restoration of rolling  stock;  (H) a data center that is certified by the comptroller  as a qualifying data center under Tax Code, §151.359 (Property  Used in Certain Data Centers; Temporary Exemption) in the processing,  storage, and distribution of data by a qualifying owner, qualifying  operator, or qualifying occupant of the data center; or  (I) a large data center project that is certified by  the comptroller as a qualifying large data center under Tax Code, §151.3595  (Property Used in Certain Large Data Center Projects; Temporary Exemption)  in the processing, storage, and distribution of data by a qualifying  owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying occupant of the data center.  (d) Local sales and use taxes on natural gas and electricity.  (1) Residential use of natural gas and electricity  is subject to local sales and use tax in the following local taxing  jurisdictions:  (A) a municipality which has elected to impose the  municipal sales and use tax on the residential use of natural gas  and electricity under Tax Code, §321.105 (Residential Use of  Gas and Electricity);  (B) a fire control, prevention, and emergency services  district whose board of directors, by order or resolution, has imposed  a sales and use tax on the residential use of electricity under Tax  Code, §321.1055 (Imposition of Fire Control or Crime Control  District Tax on the Residential Use of Gas and Electricity); or  (C) a crime control and prevention district whose board  of directors, by order or resolution, has imposed a tax on the residential  use of electricity under Tax Code, §321.1055. (2) Natural gas and electricity used in a qualifying  data center is subject to local sales and use taxes imposed under  Tax Code, Chapters 321, 322, and 323.  (e) Use of gas or electricity in an exempt manner by  an independent contractor engaged by the purchaser of the gas or electricity  to perform one or more of the activities described in subsection (c)(5)  of this section is considered use by the purchaser of the gas or electricity.  (f) Predominant use.  (1) Natural gas or electricity used during a regular  monthly billing period for both exempt and taxable purposes under  a single meter is totally exempt or taxable based upon the predominant  use of the natural gas or electricity measured by that meter. A person  who performs a processing, manufacturing, or other exempt function  must establish the predominant use of the natural gas or electricity  based upon 12 consecutive months of use.  (2) If, in the regular course of business, a person  performs a processing, manufacturing, or other exempt function only  part of the year and a nonprocessing, nonmanufacturing, or other taxable  function for the remainder of the year, the predominant use may be  established for that period of time the processing, manufacturing,  or other exempt function occurs based on the predominant use during  that period. (3) When determining the predominant use of natural  gas or electricity, utilities used to operate machinery exempt under  subsection (c)(5)(A) of this section and for lighting, cooling, and  heating in the manufacturing area during actual manufacturing or processing  of tangible personal property for sale, as set out in subsection (c)(5)(B)  of this section, are exempt. Natural gas and electricity used to operate  lighting, cooling, and heating in manufacturing support areas are  taxable. Manufacturing support areas include, but are not limited  to, storage, engineering, office, accounting, research and development,  break, eating, and restroom areas. Natural gas and electricity used  in an area open to the public for the purpose of marketing a product  ready for sale are taxable. Utilities used to operate other nonproduction  machinery or equipment are taxable.  (g) Determining predominant use: utility studies. (1) A person claiming a sales tax exemption because  the predominant use of natural gas or electricity purchased through  a single meter is for processing, manufacturing, fabricating, or another  nontaxable use must have a natural gas or electricity utility study  performed to establish the predominant exempt use of the natural gas  or electricity. (A) The study must list all uses of the utility, both  exempt and taxable, the times of usage, the energy used, whether the  use was taxable or exempt, and the percentage of exempt use of the  natural gas or electricity as determined by the study.  (B) Twelve consecutive months of utility usage must  be a part of the study. (C) The kilowatt rating or BTU rating, duty factor,  where needed for cycling equipment, and electrical or natural gas  computations must be certified by a registered engineer or a person  with an engineering degree from an accredited engineering college.  (D) The owner of the business must certify that all  items using natural gas or electricity (depending on which utility  is covered by the study) are listed and that the hours of use for  each item are correct. The certification of both the engineer and  the owner must appear on the face of the study.  "", '(E) If a person appoints an agent to act on its behalf,  the person must execute a power of attorney clearly stating the agent  is attempting to qualify the principal for a sales tax exemption. (2) A person in business less than 12 consecutive months  may still apply for a sales tax exemption if a registered engineer  or a person with an engineering degree performs a natural gas or electric  utility study based upon projected uses of the natural gas or electricity  which shows the predominant use to be exempt. A person claiming an  exemption based upon projected use must be able to support the claimed  exemption with a study of actual use after 12 consecutive months of  operation if requested by the comptroller.  (3) A natural gas or electric utility study must be  completed and on file at the location of the person claiming the exemption  at the time an exemption certificate is submitted to the utility company.  Without the study, the claim for exemption will be presumed to be  invalid.  (4) Persons obtaining a sales tax refund from a utility  company without a valid study will be assessed tax, penalty, and interest  by the comptroller on the full amount of the refund, if the exemption  is not proved.  (5) The comptroller may request a copy of a natural  gas or electric utility study for review, either before or after the  sales tax exemption is granted. Neither the comptroller\'s review of  a study nor the utility company\'s acceptance of an exemption certificate  confirms the study\'s accuracy. If the comptroller subsequently determines  a study is incomplete or inaccurate, tax, penalty, and interest will  be assessed against the person claiming the exemption to the extent  that the predominant use of the natural gas or electricity is taxable.  (6) If a person claims a sales tax refund, and the  utility study establishing the predominant use of the natural gas  or electricity was performed retrospectively, the study must take  into account any changes in equipment or other items using utilities,  any changes in business activities, and any changes in square footage  being served by the meter that occurred during or after the sales  or use tax refund period. The comptroller will not accept a predominant  use study that cannot be independently verified, such as a predominant  use study performed for a closed utility account.  (7) This subsection does not apply to persons who use  natural gas or electricity for processing, manufacturing, or another  exempt function if an industry-wide study for that particular industry  reflects that the natural gas or electricity used would always qualify  as exempt use. The industry-wide study must be submitted to the comptroller\'s  office for review and approval. A subsequent study may be required  if factors relative to the original study change.  (8) If a business claiming a sales tax exemption for  natural gas or electricity purchases based on predominant use changes  its natural gas or electric utility provider, but does not change  its natural gas or electricity usage, it is not required to perform  a new utility study. A copy of the study must be on file at the business  location for which the study was performed, and a properly completed  exemption certificate must be filed with the new utility provider  before the exemption may be claimed.  (h) Exemption certificates.  (1) An exempt user may issue an exemption certificate  to the utility company to claim a sales tax exemption on its purchase  of natural gas or electricity, or request the utility company to refund  sales tax paid to the utility company in error. Exempt users may also  request a refund of sales and use taxes paid on purchases of natural  gas and electricity from the comptroller as provided in §3.325  of this title (relating to Refunds and Payments Under Protest).  (2) A natural gas or electricity utility company may  only accept an exemption certificate in lieu of tax if the exemption  certificate is specific as to the reason for the claimed exemption.  For example, if a person is claiming that the predominant use of the  utility is for processing, the reason for the exemption must state,  ""A valid and complete study has been performed which shows that (insert  the actual exempt percentage) of the natural gas or electricity is  for processing tangible personal property for sale in the regular  course of business."" For more information regarding the exemption  certificates, see §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption  Certificates).  (3) If an exemption certificate is fully completed  with all information required by this section and bears an original  seal of a registered engineer or is attached to a signed statement  with an original signature from the owner of the business and a person  with an engineering degree from an accredited engineering college,  as required by subsection (g) of this section, the utility company  is not required to make any additional inquiry before honoring the  exemption request.  (4) The exemption is valid only as long as the person  continues to use natural gas and electricity predominantly for exempt  purposes. If the use of the natural gas or electricity changes so  that the predominant use becomes taxable, it is the person\'s responsibility  to notify the utility company in writing that the exemption is no  longer valid.  (5) A person who uses natural gas or electricity solely  in a single-family residence is not required to furnish an exemption  certificate. (6) A person whose use of natural gas and electricity  is in multifamily apartment complexes, housing complexes, nursing  homes, or other residential buildings may be required to issue an  exemption certificate if one is necessary for the utility company  to distinguish exempt residential use from taxable use.  (7) A multifamily residential property may issue a  blanket exemption certificate for vacant apartments that will be occupied  as residences and billed under the property\'s corporate name or the  name of the property owner, if at least one unit in the property is  occupied for residential use.  (8) A person who claims an exemption for natural gas  or electricity used for agricultural or timber operations must provide  an exemption certificate to its utility provider that contains the  person\'s Texas Agriculture and Timber Registration Number issued by  the comptroller and the expiration date.  (9) A qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying  occupant of a qualifying data center or a qualifying large data center  project who claims an exemption for natural gas or electricity used  for a qualifying data center or used for a qualifying large data center  must provide an exemption certificate that contains the Qualifying  Data Center or Qualifying Large Data Center Project Registration Number  and the Qualifying Owner, Qualifying Operator, or Qualifying Occupant  Registration Number issued by the comptroller to its utility provider.  (i) Transportation of a material extracted from the  earth.  (1) Sales or use tax is not due on natural gas or electricity  used to transport a material or its components extracted from the  earth. Examples of materials or components extracted from the earth  would be oil, natural gas, coal or coal slurry, crushed stone, sand  and gravel, and water.  (2) Sales or use tax is due on natural gas or electricity  used to transport products that have been manufactured from a material  extracted from the earth. Products which were manufactured from a  material extracted from the earth include substances which do not  exist in nature or are not components of crude oil, natural gas, coal,  or other minerals extracted from the earth.  (3) For purposes of this section, a material is not  considered to be manufactured when an additive is combined with the  material for ancillary reasons, for example, when odorant is added  to natural gas.  (j) Pipeline safety fees. Sales or use tax is not due  on any surcharge for pipeline safety fees added to the existing rates  of each investor-owned and municipally owned natural gas distribution  company and each natural gas master meter operator pursuant to Texas  Utilities Code, §121.211 (Pipeline Safety and Regulatory Fees).  (k) Natural gas and electricity purchased by lessors  of nonresidential real property.  (1) A lessor of nonresidential real property that purchases  natural gas or electricity directly from a utility provider is the  consumer of the natural gas or electricity, and is making a taxable  use of that natural gas or electricity, unless the lessor is otherwise  exempt from sales and use tax. See §3.322 of this title (relating  to Exempt Organizations). A utility provider may not make a tax-exempt  sale for resale to the lessor of the nonresidential real property.  (2) A lessor of nonresidential real property may not  claim an exemption for the purchase of the natural gas or electricity  based on a lessee\'s exempt status or a lessee\'s use of the natural  gas or electricity."
16|§3.296|Agriculture, Animal Life, Feed, Seed, Plants, and Fertilizer|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=296|"(a) Sales tax is not due on the receipts from sales of, and the storage, use or consumption of, the following: (1) Horses, mules, work animals, and any form of animal life of a kind the products of which ordinarily constitute food for human consumption. (A) Sales tax is not due on the sale, lease, or rental of horses and mules except when sold, leased, or rented as a part of an amusement service. (B) The term ""work animals"" shall include any animal exclusively used in the following: (i) The production of food for human consumption or other agricultural products held for sale in the regular course of business. Examples: plow animals or sheep dogs. (ii) The aiding of handicapped individuals or the performance of protective services, providing that the animal has been professionally trained for that specific purpose. (C) ""Work animals"" shall not include animals raised, trained, or held as pets or for sport or show. (D) Exemption certificates are not required on sale of horses, mules, or any form of animal life of a kind, the products of which ordinarily constitute food for human consumption. Sales tax is due on the sale of all other animals unless the purchaser provides a valid and properly completed resale or exemption certificate. (2) Hay, corn, oats, and any other type of feed normally consumed by farm and ranch animals, animals that are held for sale in the regular course of business, and wildlife. (A) Included in this section is feed for animals covered by paragraph (1) of this subsection, feed for animals held for breeding purposes whose offspring are held for sale in the regular course of business, and wildlife. Examples of feed purchased for wildlife include deer corn and perishable bait used for commercial, sport and recreational fishing. Feed purchased for an animal that might normally be kept as a pet is taxable. Pets normally include, but are not limited to, dogs, cats, rabbits, hamsters, and tropical fish. (B) All persons selling the type of feed that is normally consumed by farm and ranch animals or wildlife may sell the feed tax free without an exemption certificate. Persons selling food for an animal that might normally be kept as a pet should collect sales tax or accept a valid and properly completed resale or exemption certificate from the purchaser. (3) Seeds and annual plants, the products of which ordinarily constitute food for human consumption, are used to produce feed for animals exempted by this section, or are to be sold in the regular course of business. An exemption certificate is not required when purchasing these items. (4) Fertilizers, fungicides, insecticides, herbicides, defoliants, and desiccants exclusively used or employed on farms or ranches in the production of food for human consumption, feed for any form of animal life, or other agricultural products to be sold in the regular course of business. However, when these particular items are used in commercial storage facilities or other storage facilities that are not operated exclusively by the owner or are not located on the farm or ranch, the exemption is lost and the tax must be remitted on the sales price of the items. Fertilizer is taxable if sold for use on lawns, home gardens, or for any uses other than those listed in this paragraph. See subsection (d) of this section regarding exemption certificates. (5) Machinery or equipment used or employed on farms or ranches exclusively in: (A) the production of food for human consumption, production of grass, production of feed for any form of animal life, or other agricultural products to be sold in the regular course of business; and (B) the building or maintaining of roads and water facilities. (6) Containers, bins, or cages used exclusively to transport: (A) fruit or vegetables from the field or place of harvest to a location where the items are processed, packaged, or marketed; or (B) poultry from a poultry farm to a location where the poultry is processed, packaged, or marketed. (b) Sales tax is not due on machinery and equipment exclusively used in, and pollution equipment required as a result of, the processing, packing, or marketing of agricultural products by an original producer at a location operated by the original producer exclusively for processing, packing, or marketing the original producer\'s own products. (1) ""Original producer"" means a person who: (A) brings an agricultural product into being and is the owner of the agricultural product from the time it is brought into being until it is processed, packed, or marketed; or (B) is the grower of an agricultural product, exercises predominant operational control over the raising of the agricultural product, and bears a risk of loss of investment in the agricultural product. (2) In order to qualify as an original producer: (A) 50% or more of the agricultural products processed, packed, or marketed at or from the location must be actually produced by the original producer and not purchased or acquired from others; and (B) agricultural products belonging to others, in an amount greater than 5.0% of the total agricultural products processed, packed, or marketed by the producer, may not be processed, packed, or marketed for consideration at or from the location. (3) If a person purchases agricultural products from a grower, processes those products, and subsequently sells the processed products back to the same grower for the purpose of circumventing paragraph (2)(B) of this subsection, the person will not qualify as an original producer. (4) For purposes of determining if 50% or more of the agricultural products were actually grown by the original producer, the period to be reviewed will be the most recently completed calendar year. (A) A producer will be liable for sales tax based on the fair market rental value of machinery and equipment purchased tax free if the producer grew less than 50% of the agricultural products it processed, packed, or marketed. The period of assessment shall be the entire one-year period following the calendar year in which the producer did not meet the 50% criteria, and the assessment will be on the fair market rental value of machinery and equipment used during the period of assessment. The fair market rental value is the amount that a purchaser would pay on the open market to rent the item for use. If the item has no fair market rental value, sales tax is due based upon the purchase price. (B) At any time the producer may stop paying tax on the fair market rental value of the machinery and equipment and instead pay sales tax on the original purchase price. When the person elects to pay sales tax on the original purchase price, credit will not be allowed for taxes previously paid on the fair market rental value. (5) Two or more corporations that operate agricultural activities on the same tract or adjacent tracts of land and that are entirely owned by an individual or a combination of the individual, the individual\'s spouse, and the individual\'s children may qualify as an original producer for the purposes of paragraph (1) of this subsection. (6) Machinery and equipment exclusively used in the processing, packing, or marketing of agricultural products by an agricultural cooperative organized under the Agriculture Code, Chapter 52, are not exempt unless the comptroller determines that: (A) the cooperative itself is the original producer of all the agricultural products being processed, packed, or marketed; and (B) the processing, packing, or marketing is being accomplished at a location operated by the cooperative. (c) Persons purchasing trees, shrubs, and ornamental plants for resale are presumed to be marketing these products rather than fostering their growth. The presumption may be overcome by showing that actions were taken that did more than maintain the products prior to sale. An example would be replanting a shrub in a bigger container to encourage growth. Machinery, equipment, and other tangible personal property purchased to maintain the plants prior to sale are taxable. (d) All persons engaged in the business of selling items that are exempt from the sales tax must obtain an exemption certificate from their customers as provided in the Tax Code, §151.155 and §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates). The certificate may be a blanket certificate covering all purchases only when the items being sold are of a type or quantity that would not generally be used except on a farm or ranch. An example is farm machinery or fertilizer purchased in bulk. When a seller sells taxable items and items that may qualify for exemption under this section, the seller may either obtain an exemption certificate for each item that qualifies for exemption or obtain a certificate at the time the customer makes an exempt purchase initially and keep that certificate on file. When subsequent exempt purchases are made, the invoice must be stamped with the words, ""Exempt agricultural purposes"" and the customer must sign the invoice. (e) All medications, tonics, restoratives, or other therapeutic preparations for farm and ranch animals that are used exclusively on a farm or a ranch are exempt from sales and use tax. See subsection (d) of this section regarding exemption certificates. (f) A farm or ranch is defined as one or more tracts of land used, either wholly or in part, in the production of crops, livestock, and/or other agricultural products held for sale in the regular course of business. This includes feed lots, dairy farms, poultry farms, commercial orchards, commercial nurseries, and similar commercial agricultural operations. Farm or ranch does not include home gardens or timber operations. (g) The terms machinery or equipment include: (1) expendable supplies, such as hand tools, baling wire and binders twine; (2) lubricants for farm machinery and for motor vehicles not licensed for highway use; (3) nuts, bolts, washers, and other hardware. It also includes materials used on or in buildings, structures, or structural components that are classified as machinery or equipment; (4) repair or replacement parts used exclusively on farm or ranch machinery or equipment. This includes tractor tires, tires used on motor vehicles not licensed for highway use, and tires specifically designated by the manufacturer for farm use or off-highway use only; (5) machinery and equipment used exclusively to maintain equipment that qualifies for exemption under this section; (6) those items specifically designed to be assembled into a machine, such as parts of a pumping system or portable irrigation systems; (7) tangible personal property sold for use as a component of an underground irrigation system; (8) fenceposts, cattleguards, gates, and chutes. However, fenceposts, gates and cattleguards used to enclose private driveways, home lawns, gardens, pools, etc., do not qualify for exemption from tax. These items purchased by persons operating commercial nurseries and greenhouses and similar commercial operations for the purpose of preventing trespassing by the public do not qualify for exemption from tax; and (9) the following items and the materials used to build, construct, or fabricate these items (these items are classified as equipment and are therefore exempt), provided they meet the qualifications set out in this section and have not been previously excluded: (A) fences, pens, gates, cattleguards, and chutes used in connection with raising livestock or production of agricultural products; (B) storage facilities specifically designed for and that can be used only to store bulk fungible commodities regardless of whether the facilities are of a portable or fixed nature. Typical facilities on farms or ranches include petroleum products storage tanks, grain storage bins, refrigerated storage structures for unprocessed fruit, silos, and vehicle-mounted fertilizer spreaders or feed mills (not licensed for highway use). General purpose facilities that are used to store bulk fungible commodities, farm produce or equipment do not qualify for exemption from tax. Only those facilities that cannot be used for any purpose other than the storage of fungible goods qualify as farm equipment; (C) a building or structure that is essentially an item of equipment or machinery necessary for agricultural production if it is specifically designed for such use and cannot be economically used for any other purpose. For example, automated laying houses, farrowing houses, and commercial greenhouses. (h) Sales tax is due on the sale of computer hardware for use on farms and ranches unless specifically designed as a part of production equipment, such as a computer-operated feed mixing device. Computer software that is designed specifically to aid in the production, processing, packing, or marketing of agricultural products of the original producer qualifies for exemption. Computer software used for, but not limited to, household budgeting, payrolls, bookkeeping, educational, or recreational purposes is taxable. (i) Buildings and structural components and/or the materials used to build, construct, or fabricate the following facilities are not exempt from the limited sales and use tax. (1) Buildings include any structures or edifices enclosing a space within their walls, and usually covered by a roof, the purpose of which may be to provide storage, shelter, or housing, or to provide working, office, or sales space (for example, houses, offices, barns, storage facilities, warehouses, garages, and stores). Cont\'d...', '(2) Structural components include those parts of a building or machinery in, on, or adjacent to a building, relating to the operation or maintenance of the building (for example, air conditioning or heating systems). However, if the sole justification for installation is to meet humidity or temperature requirements essential for the operation of other machinery or the processing of plants, animals, or foodstuffs, the structural component is exempt. (j) Ice used on agricultural products. (1) Sales or use tax is not due on ice used to remove field heat from agricultural products. (2) Sales or use tax is not due on bunker ice, top ice, or any ice placed on transportation facilities by growers. For example, ice used inside or outside crates of lettuce to cool the lettuce while being shipped is exempt. (3) Sales or use tax is due on the subsequent icing after the initial icing for the purpose of preservation prior to sale except by the original producer, as that term is defined in subsection (b)(1) of this section. (k) Sales or use tax is not due on ice exclusively used by commercial fishermen on commercial fishing boats in the storing of aquatic species, such as shrimp and other crustaceans, finfish, mollusks, and other similar creatures."
17|§3.297|Carriers, Commercial Vessels, Locomotives and Rolling Stock, and Motor Vehicles|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=297|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Chapter 160 boat--A vessel not more than 65 feet  in length, measured from the tip of the bow in a straight line to  the stern, that is not a canoe, kayak, rowboat, raft, punt, inflatable  vessel, or other watercraft designed to be propelled by paddle, oar,  or pole, and that is subject to tax under Tax Code, Chapter 160 (Taxes  on Sales and Use of Boats and Boat Motors).  (2) Commercial vessel--A vessel that displaces eight  or more tons of fresh water before being loaded with fuel, supplies,  or cargo, and that is:  (A) used exclusively and directly in a commercial or  business enterprise or activity, including, but not limited to, commercial  fishing; or  (B) used commercially for pleasure fishing by individuals  who are paying passengers.  (3) Common carrier--A person who holds out to the general  public a willingness to provide transportation of persons or property  from place to place for compensation in the normal course of business.  (4) Licensed and certificated common carrier--A person  authorized through issuance of a license or certificate by the appropriate  United States agency or by the appropriate state agency within the  United States to operate a vessel, train, motor vehicle, or pipeline  as a common carrier. Certificates of inspection or safety do not authorize  a person to operate as a licensed and certificated common carrier.  (5) Locomotive--A self-propelled unit of railroad equipment  consisting of one or more units powered by steam, electricity, diesel  electric, or other fuel, designed solely to be operated on and supported  by stationary steel rails or electromagnetic guideways and to move  or draw one or more units of rolling stock owned or operated by a  railroad. The term includes a yard locomotive operated to perform  switching functions within a single railroad yard, but does not include  self-propelled roadway maintenance equipment.  (6) Marine cargo container--A container that is fully  or partially enclosed; is intended for containing goods; is strong  enough to be suitable for repeated use; and is specially designed  to facilitate the carriage of goods by one or more modes of transportation  without intermediate reloading. The term includes the accessories  and equipment that are carried with the container. The term does not  include trailer chassis, motor vehicles, accessories, or spare parts  for motor vehicles.  (7) Motor vehicle--A self-propelled vehicle designed  to transport persons or property upon the public highway and a vehicle  designed to be towed by a self-propelled vehicle while carrying property.  The term includes, but is not limited to: automobiles; motor homes;  motorcycles; trucks; truck tractors; trailers; semitrailers; house  trailers or travel trailers, as defined by §3.72 of this title  (relating to Trailers, Farm Machines, and Timber Machines); park models,  as defined by §3.481 of this title (relating to Imposition and  Collection of Manufactured Housing Tax); trailers sold unassembled  in a kit; dollies; jeeps; stingers; auxiliary axles; converter gears;  and truck cab/chassis. The term does not include a nonrepairable vehicle  and a salvage vehicle, as defined by §3.86 of this title (relating  to Destroyed and Repaired Motor Vehicles).  (8) Operating exclusively in foreign or interstate  coastal commerce--Transporting persons or property between a point  in Texas and a point in another state or foreign country. A vessel  that travels between a point in Texas and an offshore area or fishing  area on the high seas, or between two points in Texas, is not operating  exclusively in foreign or interstate coastal commerce.  (9) Railroad--A form of non-highway ground transportation  of persons or property in the normal course of business by means of  trains solely operated on and supported by stationary steel rails  or electromagnetic guideways, including but not limited to:  (A) high speed ground transportation systems that connect  metropolitan areas;  (B) commuter or other short-haul rail passenger service  in a metropolitan or suburban area;  (C) narrow gauge shortline railroads, including tourist,  historical, or amusement park railroads; and  (D) private industrial railroads operated on steel  rails that connect directly to the national rail system of transportation,  but not a private industrial railroad operated on steel rails totally  inside an installation that is not connected directly to the national  rail system of transportation.  (10) Rolling stock--A unit of railroad equipment that  is mounted on wheels and designed to be operated in combination with  one or more locomotives upon stationary steel rails or electromagnetic  guideways owned or operated by a railroad. Examples include, but are  not limited to, passenger coaches, baggage and mail cars, box cars,  tank cars, flat cars, and gondolas. Rolling stock also includes self-propelled  trackmobile rail car movers and roadway maintenance equipment. Rolling  stock does not include equipment used for intra-plant transportation  or other nontraditional railroad activities and that is mounted on  stationary steel rails or tracks but that are not part of, or connected  to, a railroad. For example, cranes operated on steel rails or tracks  and used to load or unload ships are not rolling stock.  (11) Train--One or more locomotives coupled to one  or more units of rolling stock that are designed to carry freight  or passengers, are operated on steel rails or electromagnetic guideways,  and are owned or operated by a railroad.  (12) Vessel--A watercraft, other than a seaplane on  water, used, or capable of being used, for navigation and transportation  of persons or property on water. The term includes a ship, boat, watercraft  designed to be propelled by paddle or oar, barge, and floating dry-dock.  (b) Carriers generally. (1) Use tax is not due on the storage or use of repair  or replacement parts acquired outside of Texas and actually affixed  in Texas to a self-propelled vehicle that is used by a licensed and  certificated common carrier. Trailers, barges, and semitrailers are  not considered to be self-propelled vehicles.  (2) Use tax is due on the storage or use of tangible  personal property brought into Texas to be assembled into a vehicle  used by a common carrier to transport persons or property from place  to place, unless the tangible personal property is otherwise exempt  from sales and use tax under this section. (3) Sales tax is not due on the sale of tangible personal  property to a common carrier if the tangible personal property is  shipped to a point outside of Texas using the purchasing carrier's  facilities under a bill of lading, and if the tangible personal property  is to be used by the purchasing carrier in the conduct of its business  outside of Texas. (c) Vessels. (1) Chapter 160 boats. The sale or use in Texas of  a Chapter 160 boat is subject to boat and boat motor sales or use  tax under Tax Code, Chapter 160, even if the vessel meets the definition  of a commercial vessel. The lease or rental of a Chapter 160 boat  is subject to limited sales, excise, and use tax under Tax Code, Chapter  151 (Limited Sales, Excise, and Use Tax). For information concerning  the imposition of the boat and boat motor sales and use tax, see §3.741  of this title (relating to Imposition and Collection of Tax).  (2) Commercial vessels. Sales or use tax is not due  on the sale by the builder of a commercial vessel that is not a Chapter  160 boat. (3) Component parts. Sales and use tax is not due on  the sale or use of materials, equipment, and machinery that become  component parts of a commercial vessel or a marine cargo container.  A component part is tangible personal property that is actually attached  to and becomes a part of a commercial vessel or a marine cargo container.  For example, items such as radios, radar equipment, navigation equipment,  wenches, long-line fishing gear, and rigging equipment, that are attached  to the vessel by means of bolts or brackets, or are otherwise attached  to the vessel, including items required by federal or state law, are  component parts. Permanent coatings such as paint and varnishes are  also component parts. The term does not include furnishings of any  kind that are not attached to the vessel, nor does it include consumable  supplies. For example, it does not include bedding, linen, kitchenware,  tables, chairs, ice for cooling, refrigerants for cooling systems,  fuels, lubricants, first aid kits, tools, or polishes, waxes, glazes,  or other similar temporary coatings. (4) Repair and maintenance. Sales and use tax is not  due on the labor to repair, remodel, restore, renovate, convert, or  maintain a commercial vessel or a component part of a commercial vessel.  Sales and use tax is due on the sale or use of machinery, equipment,  tools, and other items used or consumed in performing the non-taxable  service. For more information about the repair, remodeling, maintenance,  and restoration of vessels that are not commercial vessels, see §3.292  of this title (relating to Repair, Remodeling, Maintenance, and Restoration  of Tangible Personal Property).  (5) Vessels operating exclusively in foreign or interstate  coastal commerce. (A) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of materials  and consumable supplies, including items commonly known as ships'  stores and sea stores, to the owner or operator of a vessel operating  exclusively in foreign or interstate coastal commerce, if the materials  and consumable supplies are for use and consumption in the operation  and maintenance of the vessel, or if the materials and supplies enter  into and become component parts of the vessel. (B) Operation of the vessel in a manner other than  in foreign or interstate coastal commerce will result in a loss of  the exemption for ships' stores and sea stores for the quarterly period  in which the nonexempt operation occurs.  (C) Any owner or operator of a vessel operating exclusively  in foreign or interstate coastal commerce shall, when giving an exemption  certificate, include on the certificate the title or position of the  person issuing the certificate and the name of the vessel on which  the items are to be loaded.  (D) Sales tax is due on sales made to individual seamen  operating these vessels. (6) Closely associated service companies provide servicing  operations such as stevedoring, loading, and unloading vessels. Sales  or use tax is not due on the sale or use of materials and supplies  purchased by a person providing stevedoring services for a vessel  operating exclusively in foreign or interstate coastal commerce if  the materials and supplies are loaded aboard the vessel and are not  removed before its departure. This includes, but is not limited to,  such items as lumber, plywood, deck lathing, turnbuckles, and lashing  shackles. (d) Taxable uses of tangible personal property purchased  tax free. Sales and use tax is due when tangible personal property  sold, leased, or rented tax-free under a properly completed resale  or exemption certificate is subsequently put to a taxable use other  than the use allowed under the certificate. For more information refer  to §3.285 of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales  for Resale) and §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates). (e) Rolling stock, locomotives, and trains. (1) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale or use  of locomotives and rolling stock. (2) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale or use  of fuel or supplies essential to the operation of locomotives and  trains, including items required by federal or state regulation. Examples  include, but are not limited to, telecommunication and signaling equipment,  rails, ballast, cross ties, and roadbed moisture barriers. Items of  tangible personal property used to construct, repair, remodel, or  maintain improvements to real property such as depots, maintenance  facilities, loading facilities, and storage facilities are not supplies  essential to the operation of locomotives and trains.  (3) Sales or use tax is not due on the amount charged  for labor or incorporated materials used to repair, remodel, maintain,  or restore locomotives and rolling stock. Sales or use tax is due  on the sale or use of machinery, equipment, tools, and other items  used or consumed in performing the non-taxable service.  (4) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale or use  of electricity, natural gas, and other fuels used or consumed predominately  in the repair, maintenance, or restoration of rolling stock. For more  information, see §3.295 of this title (relating to Natural Gas  and Electricity).  (5) Sales or use tax is not due on the amount charged  for labor or incorporated materials, whether lump-sum or separately  stated, used for the construction of new railroad tracks and roadbeds.  For more information, see §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors).  Sales or use tax is not due on the separately stated sales price of  incorporated materials used to repair, remodel, restore, or maintain  existing railroad tracks and roadbeds. Sales and use tax is due on  the sales price for labor to repair, remodel, restore, or maintain  existing railroad tracks and roadbeds as nonresidential real property  repair, remodeling, and restoration. For more information, see §3.357  of this title (relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling,  and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance).  (f) Motor vehicles. The sale and use of motor vehicles  are taxed under the Tax Code, Chapter 152 (Taxes on Sale, Rental,  and Use of Motor Vehicles). For information on repairs to motor vehicles,  see §3.290 of this title (relating to Motor Vehicle Repair and  Maintenance; Accessories and Equipment Added to Motor Vehicles; Moveable  Specialized Equipment.
18|§3.298|Amusement Services|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=298|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in  this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly  indicates otherwise. (1) Amusement services--Entertainment, recreation, sport, pastime,  diversion, or enjoyment that is a pleasurable occupation of the senses. Amusement  services and places that offer amusement services include, but are not limited  to, the following: (A) live or recorded performances, whether by individual ticket  or by season tickets: (i) ballet performances; (ii) circuses; (iii) ice skating shows; (iv) motion pictures; (v) musical concerts; (vi) opera performances; (vii) outdoor theatres; and (viii) theatres (movies and plays); (B) exhibitions or displays: (i) animal shows (contests, exhibitions); (ii) antique shows; (iii) aquatic shows; (iv) arts and crafts, and art shows (fairs); (v) auto shows; (vi) museums (that display art objects, wax figures, antique  autos, etc.); and (vii) zoos; (C) spectator sports: (i) drag strip operation; (ii) horse shows (horse riding exhibitions); (iii) motorcycle races; (iv) automobile races (full size and miniature cars); (v) rodeo; (vi) sporting events such as football, baseball, basketball,  hockey, and soccer games; and (vii) wrestling, boxing, or arm wrestling; (D) participatory sports or games: (i) athletic clubs; (ii) bowling games; (iii) court fees--tennis, racketball, handball, etc.; (iv) domino games (including by the hour); (v) go-cart raceways; (vi) golf courses; (vii) golf driving ranges; (viii) health clubs (spas), (admissions and memberships); (ix) miniature golf courses; (x) chartered boat or party boat excursions (see paragraph  (2) of this subsection for excursions of more than one day duration, and for  excursions on which fishing guide services are provided); (xi) pool (billiards) games (by the game or by the hour); (xii) skate board tracks; (xiii) skating rinks (roller skating and ice skating); (xiv) swimming pools; (xv) water slides; and (xvi) physical fitness centers; (E) fairs or carnivals: (i) amusement parks; (ii) carnivals; (iii) fairs; (iv) games of skill, at a circus, carnival, etc.; (v) shooting galleries (ranges); and (vi) side shows; (F) other: (i) except as provided by subsection (e)(4) of this section,  cover charges (for admission to night clubs, dance halls, discos, etc., that  provide dancing, music, or other entertainment); (ii) hot tub concessions; (iii) parties (New Year's Eve) that radio stations, hotels,  etc., sponsor. Ticket price includes meal, set-ups, entertainment, party favors;  (iv) rides for pleasure (in hot-air balloons, helicopters,  trains, ships, boats, etc.); (v) tour trains and buses, whose primary purpose is to show  tourist sights along a route, as opposed to regular transportation; (vi) tours of tourist attractions, including ships, buildings,  monuments, and natural wonders such as caves and caverns; and (vii) palm reading, fortune telling, and astrological chart  preparation; (G) country clubs and other private clubs and organizations  that provide entertainment, recreation, sports, dining, or social facilities  to members. (2) Nonamusement services--Activities that are primarily instructional  in nature, or nontaxable personal services. Places, services, and clubs that  the tax on amusement services does not cover include, but are not limited  to: (A) hobby clubs (stamp collecting clubs, toastmaster clubs,  camera clubs, amateur radio clubs); (B) instructions for any sport or musical discipline; (C) camps for children (day camps or boarding camps); (D) video cassette clubs; (E) political fundraisers; (F) campground admissions; (G) cruises that last longer than 24 hours and extend offshore  beyond Texas territorial limits; (H) fishing and hunting leases and guide services; and (I) membership in sororities and fraternities. (3) Occasional sale--The sale of not more than 10 admissions  for amusement services during a 12-month period by a person who does not hold  himself out as engaging, or does not habitually engage, in the sale of amusement  services. (4) Provider of an amusement service--The person who has legal  rights of ownership over, or the legal right to provide, present, or offer,  an amusement, entertainment, or recreation that is rendered on a regular basis  at a fixed location, and for which admissions are sold, such as the owner  of the wax figure display at a wax museum. The provider of an amusement service  is also the person who has legal rights of ownership to an amusement, entertainment,  or recreation that will not be rendered on a regular basis at a fixed location,  and for which amusement service admissions will be sold, such as the provider  of a singer's one-night live performance. A provider of an amusement service  may be, but is not always, the owner of the facility (land and/or building)  at which the amusement service is offered or performed. A provider of an amusement  service may gain the right of providing an amusement service by virtue of  a contract or agreement (lease, rental, concession right) with the performer(s)  of the entertainment, or with a facility owner when the use of that facility  constitutes the amusement service. Terms used within the amusements industry  to refer to a provider include manager, promoter, concessionaire, tenant,  or association (or club) president. (5) Sales price of an amusement service--The fee charged for  admission to an amusement, including a convenience fee, handling charge, service  charge, or other amount that is over and above the amount that would be charged  for an amusement admission at the ticket counter of the facility at which  the amusement service will be rendered. Sales price also includes dues, initiation  fees, and other charges, assessments, and fees required for a special privilege,  status, or membership classification in a private club or organization. Receipts  subject to tax under the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code, §202.02, are  not included in the sales price of an amusement service. (6) Sales price of membership to country clubs, including clubs  described by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, §501(c)(7)--The sales  price includes dues, initiation fees, and other charges, assessments, and  fees required for a special privilege, status, or membership classification  in a private club or organization. Whether the club has its own facilities  is irrelevant to the determination of sales price. Receipts subject to tax  under Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code, §202.02, are not included in the  sales price of an amusement service. (7) Seller of admissions to amusement services--A person who  sells more than 10 admissions to amusement services during a 12-month period,  and includes those persons who hold themselves out as engaging, or who habitually  engage, in the sale of admissions to amusement services. (8) Sale of an amusement service admission--The transfer of  title to, or possession of, a ticket or other admission document for consideration,  or the collection of an admission, membership, or enrollment fee, whether  by individual performance, subscription series, or membership privilege, or  through the use of a coin-operated or credit-card-operated machine. The consideration  paid may secure the admission privilege for an individual or a group of individuals.  The contract or agreement whereby the right is secured for a provider to offer  an amusement, recreation, or entertainment as an amusement service is not  the sale of an admission to an amusement service and is not subject to sales  tax, such as the payment of a fee to a singer for a performance that the payer  of the fee will provide as an amusement service through the sales of tickets.  (b) Charges to private club members and guests. The membership  dues, initiation fees, and other assessments and fees charged for a special  privilege, status, or membership classification in a private club or organization,  including organizations described by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, §501(c)(7),  if the organizations provide amusements, are taxable. Taxable fees for special  privileges in the organization include, but are not limited to, liquor pool  dues, boat slip rental fees, golf cart storage fees, locker rental fees, locker  room use fees, and fees for access to the restaurant and bar. Separate charges  for amusement services by persons who operate clubs or other facilities over  and above amounts that are received for membership or initiation fees, such  as green fees or fees for admissions to swimming pools, racketball courts,  or tennis courts, are also taxable. Initiation fees that are refundable, as  evidenced by a written agreement, are not taxable. (c) Entry fees. Entry fees will not be taxable as amusements  if: (1) the fee substantially exceeds what would normally be paid  for use of the facility, and a person is paying to compete in a contest, and  part of the fee offsets the cost of conducting the contest and for prizes;  or (2) an individual would not normally use the facility or pay  a fee, except for the purpose of participation in a contest. (d) Travel agencies. (1) Tickets to amusements that travel agencies sell as part  of a travel package are taxable only if: (A) the price of the ticket is separately stated from the price  for the remainder of the package; or (B) though not separately stated, the surrounding additional  costs are inconsequential. (2) If the travel agency is not required to collect sales tax,  then sales tax must be paid at the time the travel agency purchases the tickets.  (e) Imposition of tax. (1) Sales tax is due on the sale of an admission to an amusement  service if the event or location of the service is within the State of Texas.  Sales tax is also due on admissions to gambling ships that operate outside  Texas waters, if the ships depart from and return to Texas ports. Sales tax  is not due on the sale of an admission to an amusement service if the event  or location of the service is outside Texas. (2) Use tax is due on an out-of-state sale of an admission  to an amusement event that will take place in Texas. (3) When a sale of an amusement service occurs that does not  involve the transfer of a ticket or other physical evidence of admission,  possession of or title to the admission is regarded as occurring at the seller's  place of business. An example is when admission is secured by a reservation  that the seller makes for the purchaser. (4) Sales or use tax is not due on cover charges that are taxable  under Alcoholic Beverage Code, 202.02.  (f) Taxable item sold or transferred with amusement service.  (1) Sellers of service may issue a resale certificate in lieu  of tax to suppliers of tangible personal property only if care, custody, and  control of the property is transferred to the client. For example, a taxpayer  purchases padlocks to transfer to customers when lockers are rented. The padlock  is transferred to customers, and the customers use the padlock when renting  the locker. The taxpayer may purchase the padlock tax free by issuing a resale  certificate. Tax is due on the total amount charged the customer, including  amounts for the padlock and for the services. (2) A resale certificate may be issued for a service if the  buyer intends to transfer the service as an integral part of taxable services.  A service will be considered an integral part of a taxable service if the  service purchased is essential to the performance of the taxable service,  and without which the taxable service could not be rendered. (3) A resale certificate may be issued for a taxable service  if the buyer intends to incorporate the service into tangible personal property  that will be resold. If the entire service is not incorporated into the tangible  personal property, the presumption is that the service is subject to tax,  and the service will only be exempt to the extent that the buyer can establish  the portion of the service that was actually incorporated into the tangible  personal property. If the buyer does not intend to incorporate the entire  service into the tangible personal property, no resale certificate may be  issued, but credit may be claimed at the time of sale of the tangible personal  property to the extent the "", 'service was actually incorporated into the tangible  personal property. (4) Any item, such as machinery or equipment, purchased for  use in the provision of an amusement service is not an item that is transferred  with an amusement service, and is subject to sales tax. (5) A reseller of a ticket or admission document to an amusement  service may deduct from ""taxable sales reported,"" the ""adjusted value"" of  the ticket or admission document purchased for resale from a non-permitted  purchaser of the ticket or admission document. The ""adjusted value"" is the  face value of the ticket or admission document, less the included sales tax.  A reseller is allowed the deduction from taxable sales when filing a sales  tax report, if all of the following criteria are met: (A) the purchaser paid the sales tax, and the purchaser does  not hold a Texas Sales and Use Tax Permit; (B) the language on the ticket or admission document purchased  for resale states that all taxes have been included in the price of the ticket  or admission document; (C) the ticket or admission document for which a deduction  is claimed was not purchased tax-free by use of a resale or exemption certificate;  and (D) the ticket or admission document is actually resold. (g) Exemptions. (1) Sales tax is not due on the sale of an amusement service  if the service is provided exclusively: (A) by a nonprofit organization, corporation, or association,  other than organizations described by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, §501(c)(7),  if the proceeds do not go to the benefit of an individual, except as a part  of the services of a purely public charity. Initiation and membership fees  and other assorted fees charged by such a nonprofit organization, corporation,  or association are not taxable. Examples include organizations, corporations,  or associations recognized as nonprofit organizations under the Internal Revenue  Code, §501(c); Kiwanis clubs, labor unions, and ex-students organizations.  Organizations described by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, §501(c)(7),  that provide amusements, do not qualify for this exemption, even though such  groups are formed as nonprofit organizations; (B) by a nonprofit corporation organized under the laws of  this state for the purpose of encouraging agriculture by the maintenance of  public fairs and exhibitions; (C) by an educational (including institutions of higher education  as defined under Education Code, §61.003(8)), religious, law enforcement,  or charitable association or organization, as long as no part of the proceeds  goes to the benefit of a private individual; (D) by the United States, the State of Texas, a municipality,  county, school district, special district, or other political subdivision  of the State of Texas, other than a public institution of higher education  as defined under Education Code, §61.003(8). An amusement service is  not ""exclusively provided"" by a governmental entity if the entity contracts  with an entity that is not listed in the Tax Code, §151.3101(a)(1), for  the provision of the amusement; (E) in a place that is included in the National Register of  Historic Places; or (F) in a place that is designated as a Recorded Texas Historic  Landmark by the Texas Historical Commission. (2) Sales tax is not due on the sale of an amusement service  by a ticket service, ticket agent, ticket outlet, or any other seller of amusement  services, when the provider of the amusement service is exempt as set forth  in paragraph (1) of this subsection. (3) Except as provided by subsection (h) of this section, a  nonprofit group may hire a for-profit organization to provide the expertise  to produce an event without loss of the exemption provided by paragraph (1)(A)  of this subsection. The nonprofit organization must hold itself out as the  provider of the amusement, and may not be a joint venturer with the for-profit  entity. (4) Amusement services provided through coin-operated machines  that the consumer operates are exempt from sales tax. The coin used to operate  the machine may be a token as well as a United States coin. Examples are coin-operated:  (A) pinball machines; (B) video games and motion pictures; (C) pool tables; (D) televisions; (E) shuffleboard; (F) jukeboxes; and (G) batting cages. (5) Sales tax is not due on the occasional sale of an amusement  service. (6) Sales tax is not due on the purchase of an amusement service  by an exempt entity for its own amusement or for the amusement of its members.  See §3.322 of this title (relating to Exempt Organizations). The seller  must secure a valid exemption certificate. An amusement service is purchased  for the amusement of its members irrespective of whether: (A) the organization pays the admission for the members; (B) the members reimburse the exempt organization; or (C) the members directly pay the service provider under an  agreement by the provider to accept payments from individual members, the  aggregate total of which equals the contractual obligation of the organization.  (7) Sales tax is not due on the purchase of the admission to  an activity that may be classified as an amusement, entertainment, or recreation,  if purchased under a written prescription of a licensed practitioner of the  healing arts for the primary purpose of health maintenance or improvement.  The written prescription must specify the type of the treatment needed. If  a membership privilege is purchased pursuant to a written prescription, a  new prescription must be obtained each time the membership is renewed. (8) Except as provided under subsection (g)(1)(E) or (F) of  this section, tax is due on an amusement service provided by an organization  that is not exempted under subsection (g) or (h) of this section, when the  facilities used to provide the amusement service are leased or rented from  an organization that is exempted under subsection (g) or (h) of this section.  (h) Governmental entities. (1) Entities recognized as governmental entities are subject  to the provisions of this subsection even though the entities may also be  classified under the Tax Code, §151.3101(a)(3), (4), or (5).  (2) Unless an event is solely for educational purposes, an  amusement service provided by this state, an institution that this state owns  or operates, an agency of this state, a city, county, school district, special  district, or other political subdivision of this state, or any agency of the  United States, is taxable if the public entity contracts with a person, a  for-profit organization, or any other organization that is not listed in Tax  Code, §151.3101(a)(1), to provide the expertise to produce or provide  a musical concert or other amusement event. These public entities must collect  sales tax on admissions to amusement events that are provided by or in conjunction  with a person, a for-profit organization, or other organization that is not  listed in Tax Code, §151.3101(a)(1). This provision does not apply to  a public institution of higher education as defined under Education Code, §61.003(8).  Public institutions of higher education are included in the term ""educational  organizations"" and are subject to the provisions of subsection (g)(1)(C) of  this section.  (3) An amusement is not solely for educational purposes unless  either 100% of the proceeds from the admissions go to the educational organization,  or students at the educational institution actually perform the amusement.  (i) Collection of the tax. (1) Persons who sell admissions to an amusement service for  resale may accept a resale certificate from the purchaser of the amusement  in lieu of tax. The resale certificate will cover all convenience fees, handling  charges, service charges, etc., that promoters, ticket services, and others  add to the sales price of the admission. (2) Each seller of amusement services who sells to the final  consumer must collect and remit the tax to the comptroller, based on the total  receipts from all taxable sales. A seller is responsible for remitting the  correct amount of tax based on the total sales price of admissions, including  any charges that others have added. (3) The comptroller may regard any seller of an admission to  an amusement service as the agent of the person from whom he obtains the tickets  or other admission document, if the comptroller determines that the tax will  be collected more efficiently. The seller of an admission to amusement service  is regarded as the agent if: (A) the person who provides the tickets or other admission  documents obtains written authorization from the comptroller to assume responsibility  for the tax collection of the agent; (B) the person who provides the tickets includes in the sales  price of the admission any convenience fee, handling charge, etc., that the  agent has added to the price; and (C) the provider of the tickets gives to the seller/agent a  written statement that the provider holds a tax permit issued by the comptroller  and is assuming responsibility for tax collection and reporting for the agent.  (j) Records. Every seller of admissions to amusement services  is responsible for keeping accurate records of all sales and purchases. See §3.281  of this title (relating to Records Required; Information Required). Every  seller of admissions to amusement services must hold a sales tax permit and  must file reports as required by §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller\'s  and Purchaser\'s Responsibilities). A reseller of a ticket or admission document  to an amusement service who deducts the ""adjusted value"" of the ticket or  admission document purchased for resale from a non-permitted purchaser, as  provided in subsection (f)(5) of this section, must have records that verify  the deduction, including: (1) the name and address of the non-permitted purchaser; (2) the face value of any ticket or admission document that  a non-permitted purchaser has purchased; (3) proof (such as a copy of the ticket or admission document)  showing that sales tax is included in the price of the ticket or admission  document; (4) the sales of tickets or admission documents; and (5) the remaining inventory of unsold tickets or admission  documents. (k) Local tax. City, county, transit authority, and special  purpose district tax should be allocated to the city, county, transit authority,  and/or special purpose district where the amusement event occurred."
19|§3.299|Newspapers, Magazines, Publishers, Exempt Writings|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=299|"(a) Newspapers. (1) Newspaper--A publication: (A) printed on newsprint; (B) whose average sales price per copy over a 30-day  period does not exceed $3.00. The average sales price per copy shall  be presumed to be the newspaper's masthead price unless the taxpayer  provides contemporaneous documentary evidence satisfactory to the  comptroller that adequately demonstrates the actual average sales  price; (C) that is printed and distributed periodically at  daily, weekly, or other short intervals of four weeks or less; (D) for the dissemination of news of a general character  and of a general interest, including advertising. (2) Newspaper includes a publication containing articles  and essays of general interest by various writers and advertisements  that is produced for the operator of a licensed and certificated carrier  of persons and distributed by the operator to its customers during  their travel on the carrier. (3) Newspaper also includes publications for the dissemination  of news of a general character and of a general interest that is printed  on newsprint and distributed to the general public free of charge  at daily, weekly, or other short intervals of four weeks or less. (4) The term newspaper does not include magazines,  handbills, circulars, flyers, sales catalogs, or the like, unless  these items are distributed as a part of a newspaper and the items,  after being printed, are delivered by the printer to the person responsible  for the distribution of the newspaper. (5) The sale of newspapers whether sold or distributed  by individual copy or subscription is exempt. (b) Magazines. (1) Magazine--Those publications usually paper-backed  and sometimes illustrated that appear at regular intervals and contain  stories, articles, essays by various writers, and advertisements. (2) The sale of subscriptions to magazines entered  as periodicals class (formerly called second class) mail and sold  for a semiannual or longer period of time is exempt from the sales  tax. Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, other sales  of magazines are taxable. (3) For the purposes of this section, controlled circulation  magazines means magazines paid for by advertisers rather than by recipients  of the magazines. (A) The publishers of controlled circulation magazines  must collect sales tax from persons who advertise in their magazines  based upon the sales price of the magazine. The sales price of the  magazine must be separately stated from the charge for advertising  and must be a reasonable amount for such publication. The sales price  will be considered reasonable if the publication meets the requirement  for periodicals class postal rates, as set forth in the postal regulations. (B) Controlled circulation magazines do not include  those magazines provided to members of an organization as part of  their membership if: (i) either a part of their membership dues are identified  as the sales price of the magazine plus tax; or (ii) the membership dues do not identify the sales  price of the magazine, but sales tax was paid by the organization  on the cost of publication. (c) Publishers. (1) Newspaper publishers may claim a manufacturing  exemption as set out in §3.300 of this title (relating to Manufacturing;  Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating; Processing). Newspaper publishers  may also claim the exemption for packaging supplies as set out in §3.314  of this title (relating to Wrapping, Packing, Packaging Supplies,  Containers, Labels, Tags, Export Packers, and Stevedoring Materials  and Supplies). Persons printing newspapers may accept an exemption  certificate in lieu of the sales tax from the publisher. (2) Magazine and other publishers of tangible personal  property for sale will be considered manufacturers under Tax Code,  Chapter 151 and should see §3.300 of this title and §3.314  of this title concerning the status of their purchases. (3) Magazine publishers of tangible personal property  distributed free of charge are not considered manufacturers under  Tax Code, Chapter 151 or §3.300 of this title. These publishers  must pay tax on their purchases of equipment and materials used to  produce the free magazine.  (d) Exempt writings. (1) Periodicals and writings are exempt from tax if  published and distributed by a religious, philanthropic, charitable,  historical, scientific, or other similar organization not operated  for profit. Periodicals and writings published and distributed by  an educational organization are subject to the tax. (2) Material provided in Braille and audio recordings  of writings and periodicals recorded and distributed by a religious,  philanthropic, charitable, historical, scientific, or other similar  organization for use by the visually impaired are exempt from tax. (3) The phrase ""similar organization"" used in this  section shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, organizations  qualifying for exemption from federal income taxes under 26 United  States Code §501(c)(3), with the exception of educational organizations.  ""Similar organizations"" must be organized for a benevolent purpose  and must not be operated for profit. (4) The term ""distributed"" used in this section shall  mean the shipment, marketing, or sale of periodicals or writings. (5) The terms ""periodicals"" and ""writings"" used in  this section shall mean printed reading materials including those  presented on audio tape, videotape, and computer disk. Examples include  books, Bibles, United Way newsletters, American Cancer Society magazines,  brochures, newspapers, hymnals or sheet music, and similar items.  Items that contain printed materials susceptible to being read, but  that primarily serve other purposes or functions, are not exempt.  Examples of such nonexempt items include bookmarks, clothing, posters,  art work, photographs, novelties, and souvenirs. (6) The phrase ""educational organization"" used in this  section shall mean all public and private schools, colleges and universities,  and other similar institutions that are organized for the systematic  dissemination of knowledge through a formal program of instruction."
20|§3.300|Manufacturing; Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating; Processing (Tax Code, §§151.005, 151.007, 151.318, and 151.3181)|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=300|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Accessory--A machine fixture that causes the machinery to operate in a specialized way. (2) Custom manufacturing--Producing tangible personal property to the special order of the customer, e.g., tailor-made clothing, custom-made draperies or slip-covers, or furniture made-to-order. Custom manufacturers are manufacturers for the purpose of this section. (3) Display item--A manufactured item that is identical in size and function to other items held for sale which it represents and that is ultimately sold at retail. For example, manufacturer's apparel lines, furniture showroom pieces, light fixture displays. (4) Equipment--Any apparatus, work clothing, device, or simple machines used directly in production. (5) Fabrication--To make, build, create, produce, or assemble components of tangible personal property, or to make tangible personal property work in a new or different manner. (6) Hand tool--An instrument that is to be used, managed, and powered by the hand (e.g., paint brush, trowel, hammer, screwdriver, files). Equipment that is controlled or operated by the hand, but is moved or powered by electricity, gas, steam, or other fuel, is not a hand tool (e.g., electric drill, chain saw, jack hammer). (7) Machinery--All power-operated machines. (8) Manufacturer--A person who is engaged in manufacturing. The definition includes processors, fabricators, submanufacturers, and custom manufacturers. (9) Manufacturing--Each operation beginning with the first stage in the production of tangible personal property and ending with the completion of tangible personal property. The first production stage means the first act of production, and it shall not include those acts in preparation for production. For example, a lumber company that cuts trees or a manufacturer that gathers, arranges, or sorts raw materials or inventory is preparing for production. The first production stage for the manufacturing of software is the design and writing of the code or program, and manufacturing includes the testing or demonstration of the software. Manufacturing includes the repair or rebuilding of tangible personal property that the manufacturer owns for the purpose of being sold, but does not include the repair or rebuilding of property that belongs to another. (A) Completion of production means the tangible personal property has all the physical properties, including packaging, if any, that it has when transferred by the manufacturer to another. For example, a manufacturer of raw rubber has completed production when the raw rubber is ready to be transferred to a manufacturer of rubber goods. (B) Processing and fabrication are two activities that are performed during manufacturing. For example, the person who takes raw steel and makes pipe is engaged in fabrication. The workers who coat or thread the pipe are engaged in processing. (10) Processing--The physical application of the materials and labor necessary to modify or to change the characteristics of tangible personal property. The repair of tangible personal property, belonging to another, by restoring it to its original condition is not considered processing of that property. The mere packing, unpacking, or shelving of a product to be sold will not be considered to be processing of that property. Processing does not include remodeling. (11) Remodeling--To make tangible personal property belonging to another over again, in a similar but different way, or to change the style, shape, or form, without causing a loss of its identity, or without causing the property to work in a new or different manner. (12) Replacement part--Any repair part attached to the machinery, equipment, or accessory. (13) Sample--A scale model or representative piece of a manufactured product held for sale. For example, cloth swatches and wallpaper books. (14) Semiconductor fabrication and pharmaceutical biotechnology cleanrooms and equipment--All tangible personal property, without regard to whether the property is affixed to or incorporated into realty, that is used in connection with the manufacturing, processing, or fabrication in a cleanroom environment of a semiconductor product or a pharmaceutical biotechnology product, without regard to whether the property is actually contained in the cleanroom environment. The term includes integrated systems, fixtures, and piping; moveable cleanroom partitions and cleanroom lighting; all property necessary or adapted to reduce contamination or to control airflow, temperature, humidity, chemical purity, or other environmental conditions or manufacturing tolerances; production equipment and machinery; all tangible personal property that moves the product or other materials that are necessary and essential to the process, including piping that is used to move gas, liquids, deionized water, and hazardous waste material; silicon wafer moving, handling, and tracking systems; and electrical supply and control equipment, such as switches, wiring, and monitoring equipment that is incorporated into the realty. The term does not include the building or any permanent, nonremovable structural component part of the building, such as vibration-isolation platforms and vibration columns. (15) Submanufacturer--A person who performs one or more of the manufacturing operations described in paragraph (9) of this subsection upon a product, or upon an intermediate or preliminary product, for a manufacturer. (b) Manufacturer's responsibilities. (1) Collection of tax. Persons who are engaged in the business of fabricating, manufacturing, processing, or custom manufacturing must collect sales tax on the total sales price of the manufactured item or accept a resale or exemption certificate in lieu of the tax. The sales price includes the cost of materials, labor or service costs, and all expenses that are connected with production. Persons who fabricate, custom manufacture, or process tangible personal property that the customer furnishes, either directly or indirectly, must collect tax on such fabricating, custom manufacturing, or processing charge. Manufacturers shall pay or accrue sales or use tax on all items used in the manufacturing process that do not qualify for exemption from tax. A manufacturer who purchases tangible personal property tax free by means of an exemption certificate or resale certificate and subsequently uses the item for a nonexempt purpose is responsible for tax as provided in subsection (k) of this section. (2) Installed items. Generally, the charge for labor to install an item sold is taxable when the item sold is taxable. Persons who manufacture and install items that become improvements to residential realty or are incorporated into new real property structures are contractors and are subject to the provisions of §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors). Example: cabinetmakers who also affix the cabinets as a part of a new-construction contract. Persons who manufacture and install items that become improvements to existing nonresidential realty are subject to the provisions of §3.357 of this title (relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling, and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance). Persons who manufacture and install items as a part of a contract to repair tangible personal property are subject to the provisions of §3.292 of this title (relating to Repair, Remodeling, Maintenance, and Restoration of Tangible Personal Property). Example: fabricating a propeller shaft for a customer as a part of an outboard motor repair. Persons who manufacture and install items that do not become improvements to realty or that are not part of a repair must collect sales tax on the total charge. Example: a retailer who makes and installs draperies for a home owner. (3) Molds, dies, patterns. The manufacturer's purchase of molds, dies, patterns, jigs, tooling, photo engraving, and other manufacturing aids, and their raw materials or component parts, may qualify for exemption under subsection (d) of this section. (A) Written agreement - sale. A separate charge by the manufacturer for the aid will be considered a sale of the aid to the customer only if a written agreement exists between parties that clearly makes the customer the owner of the aid. As owner of the aid, the customer will owe tax on the amount that the manufacturer charged, unless the customer is also manufacturing a product for sale. (B) No written agreement - no sale. When no written agreement exists between the manufacturer and the customer, and the manufacturer separates the charge for the aid from the charge for the items produced by means of the aid, a sale will not be considered to have occurred. The combined charges constitute the sales price of the manufactured item. (Charge for aid plus charge for items produced equals sales price of items.) The total charge shall be taxable or nontaxable depending on the taxability of the items produced. (4) Samples. Since the sole use of such samples is to demonstrate not the sample but the other items that the sample represents, the purchase of the raw materials that are used to make the sample is subject to sales or use tax, regardless of the fact that the sample itself may be ultimately sold. (c) Nonexempt manufacturing items. Certain items are specifically subject to tax: (1) taxable items that are not otherwise exempted by this section; (2) machinery, equipment, replacement parts, and accessories that are rented or leased for a term of less than one year; (3) items that are merely useful or incidental to the operation, such as office machines, office supplies, transportation equipment, maintenance supplies, cleaning supplies, lubricants, and other items that are incidental to the manufacturing process and are not otherwise exempted by this section; (4) hand tools; (5) intraplant transportation equipment, unless exempted in subsections (d)(17) and (18) of this section, including equipment that is used to move a product or raw material in connection with the manufacturing process, and specifically including all piping, conveyor systems, and related pumps (unless otherwise exempted), meters, valves, or rollers. Intraplant transportation equipment is taxable even if manufacturing or processing activities (such as cooling, mixing, or pollution containment) occur during the transportation of product or component parts of the product; (6) machinery and equipment or supplies that are not otherwise exempted in this section, but that are used to maintain or store tangible personal property (for example, refrigeration equipment that a restaurant uses); (7) tangible personal property that is used in the transmission or distribution of electricity, including transformers, cable, switches, breakers, capacitor banks, regulators, relays, reclosers, fuses, interruptors, reactors, arrestors, resistors, insulators, instrument transformers, and telemetry units that are not otherwise exempted under this section, and lines, conduit, towers, and poles. (d) The following items are exempted from the taxes imposed by Tax Code, Chapter 151, if purchased, leased, or rented by a manufacturer for storage, use, or consumption: (1) tangible personal property that will become an ingredient or component part of tangible personal property that is manufactured, processed, or fabricated for ultimate sale; (2) tangible personal property that is directly used or consumed in or during the actual manufacturing, processing, or fabrication of tangible personal property for ultimate sale, if the use or consumption of the property is necessary or essential to the manufacturing, processing, or fabrication operation and directly makes or causes a chemical or physical change to: (A) the product that is being manufactured, processed, or fabricated for ultimate sale; or (B) any intermediate or preliminary product that will become an ingredient or component part of the product that is being manufactured, processed, or fabricated for ultimate sale. (3) services that are performed directly on the product that is being manufactured prior to the product's distribution for sale, and for the purpose of making the product more marketable; (4) actuators, steam production equipment (including water purification equipment such as demineralizers and reverse osmosis units) and its fuel, in-process flow through tanks, cooling towers, generators, heat exchangers, transformers and the switches, breakers, capacitor banks, regulators, relays, reclosers, fuses, interruptors, reactors, arrestors, resistors, insulators, instrument transformers, and telemetry units that are related to the transformers, electronic control room equipment, computerized control units, pumps, compressors, hydraulic units, boilers (including economizers, superheaters, waterwalls, hoppers, feedwater heaters, condensers, pumps, air preheaters, draft fans, pulverizors, primary crushers, secondary crushers, oil or gas burning equipment that is related to the boilers), and related accessories that are used to power, supply, support, or control equipment that qualifies for exemption under paragraph (2) or (6) of this subsection or to generate electricity, chilled water, or steam for ultimate sale; (5) transformers located at an electric generating facility that increase the voltage of electricity generated for ultimate sale, the electrical cable that carries the electricity from the electric generating equipment to the step-up transformers, and the switches, breakers, capacitor banks, regulators, relays, reclosers, fuses, interruptors, reactors, arrestors, resistors, insulators, instrument transformers, telemetry units, and related accessories that are associated with the step-up transformers; and "", ""transformers that decrease the voltage of electricity generated for ultimate sale and the switches, breakers, capacitor banks, regulators, relays, reclosers, fuses, interruptors, reactors, arrestors, resistors, insulators, instrument transformers, telemetry units, and related accessories that are associated with the step-down transformers; (6) tangible personal property that is used or consumed in the actual manufacturing, processing, or fabrication of tangible personal property for ultimate sale, if the use or consumption of the property is necessary and essential to a pollution control process; (7) lubricants, chemicals, chemical compounds, gases, or liquids that are used or consumed during the actual manufacturing, processing, or fabrication of tangible personal property for ultimate sale, if their use or consumption is necessary and essential to prevent the decline, failure, lapse, or deterioration of equipment that is exempted by this section; (8) gases that are used on the premises of a manufacturing plant to prevent contamination of raw material or product, or to prevent a fire, explosion, or other hazardous or environmentally damaging situation at any stage in the manufacturing process or in loading or storage of the product or raw material on premises; (9) tangible personal property that is used or consumed during the actual manufacturing, processing, or fabrication of tangible personal property for ultimate sale, if the use or consumption of the property is necessary and essential to a quality control process that tests tangible personal property that is being manufactured, processed, or fabricated for ultimate sale. For example, equipment that is used to test the product after the item is produced, but prior to wrapping and packaging. Equipment that is used to test raw materials prior to processing does not qualify for this exemption; (10) safety apparel or work clothing that is used during the actual manufacturing, processing, or fabrication of tangible personal property for ultimate sale, if the manufacturing process would not be possible without the use of the apparel or clothing and the apparel or clothing is not resold to the employee. Examples are specialized clothing, safety goggles, gloves, ear plugs, or hairnets that the law requires employees to wear during processing, or static wrist guards that manufacturing personnel wear in a manufacturing process that must be free of static electricity. A regulation that requires employees to wear clean clothing is not sufficient to qualify uniforms for exemption; (11) tangible personal property that is used or consumed in the actual manufacturing, processing, or fabrication of tangible personal property for ultimate sale, if the use or consumption of the property is necessary and essential to comply with federal, state, or local laws or rules that establish requirements for public health purposes. For example, disinfectants that are used in a meat packing operation to sanitize work areas are exempt. Tangible personal property that is required to be on site, but used only in emergency situations, is not considered consumed in the actual manufacturing process (for example, fire extinguishers, eye baths, and safety signs are not exempt under this provision); (12) tangible personal property that is specifically installed to: (A) reduce water use and wastewater flow volumes from the manufacturing, processing, fabrication, or repair operation; (B) reuse and recycle wastewater streams that are generated within the manufacturing, processing, fabrication, or repair operation; or (C) treat wastewater from another industrial or municipal source for the purpose of replacing existing freshwater sources in the manufacturing, processing, fabrication, or repair operation. (13) gas and electricity when used directly in manufacturing. See §3.295 of this title (relating to Natural Gas and Electricity). (14) labor charges for repair, maintenance, remodeling, or restoration services to pollution control equipment or machinery that a law or regulation requires, and other tangible personal property that is exempt under this section. (15) wrapping, packing, and packaging supplies that are used to further the sale of a product. See §3.314 of this title (relating to Wrapping, Packing, Packaging Supplies, Containers, Labels, Tags, Export Packers, and Stevedoring Materials and Supplies). (16) display items and the raw materials that are used to make display items, so long as the item is used only to demonstrate itself and the same or similar items prior to its sale to an ultimate consumer. The item may not be used for any purpose other than demonstration or display. Any other use by the manufacturer is taxable as a divergent use. (17) piping or conveyor systems that are a component part of a single item of manufacturing equipment or pollution control equipment that is eligible for the exemption. For example, a printing press contains rollers and pipes to transport or feed paper or ink during the manufacturing process. The purchase of the press would continue to qualify for exemption, and rollers, pipe, or other press repair parts would remain as qualifying accessories or repair parts, even when purchased separately. An integrated group of manufacturing and processing machines and ancillary equipment that operate together to create or produce the product, or an intermediate or preliminary product that will become an ingredient or component part of the product, is not a single item of manufacturing equipment. (18) piping through which the product, or an intermediate or preliminary product that will become an ingredient or component part of the product, is recycled or circulated in a loop between the single item of manufacturing equipment and the ancillary equipment that supports only that single item of manufacturing equipment, if the single item of manufacturing equipment and the ancillary equipment operate together to perform a specific step in the manufacturing process; and piping through which the product, or an intermediate or preliminary product that will become an ingredient or component part of the product, is recycled back to another single item of manufacturing equipment and its ancillary equipment in the same manufacturing process. (e) Rented or leased taxable items. The exemptions provided in this section do not apply to any taxable item rented or leased before October 1, 1995, under an operating lease to a person engaged in manufacturing. Taxable items used in a manner exempted under this section and leased on or after October 1, 1995, for a term of one year or more qualify for exemption. (f) Semiconductor fabrication and pharmaceutical biotechnology cleanrooms and equipment. Semiconductor fabrication and pharmaceutical biotechnology cleanrooms and equipment as defined in subsection (a)(14) of this section and associated materials and other items that are necessary and essential to maintain the cleanroom environment are exempt. Semiconductor fabrication and pharmaceutical biotechnology cleanrooms and equipment are not intraplant transportation equipment or used incidentally in a manufacturing process or fabrication operation as those terms are used in subsections (c)(3) and (c)(5) of this section. Regarding pharmaceutical biotechnology cleanrooms and equipment, the exemption applies only to pharmaceutical biotechnology cleanrooms and equipment that are installed as part of the construction of a new facility with a value of at least $150 million and on which construction began after July 1, 2003, and before August 31, 2004. (g) Overhaul, retrofit, or repair of jet turbine engines. A person who is engaged in the overhaul, retrofit, or repair of jet turbine aircraft engines and their component parts may claim an exemption from tax on the purchase of machinery, equipment, or replacement parts or accessories with a useful life in excess of six months, or supplies, including aluminum oxide, nitric acid, and sodium cyanide, used in electrochemical plating or a similar process, that are used or consumed in the overhauling, retrofitting, or repairing of jet turbine aircraft engines or their component parts. (h) Persons engaged in printing tangible personal property. A person who is engaged in printing or imprinting tangible personal property for sale or production of a publication for the dissemination of news of a general character and of a general interest that is printed on newsprint and distributed to the general public daily, weekly, or at some other short interval, free of charge, may purchase tax free, in addition to other items that are exempted under this section, the following items that are necessary and essential to and used in connection with the printing process: pre-press machinery, equipment, and supplies, including computers, cameras, film, film developing chemicals, veloxes, plate-making machinery, plate metal, litho negatives, color separation negatives, proofs of color negatives, production art work, and typesetting or composition proofs. (i) Separated and lump-sum contracts to improve realty. A contractor who incorporates into realty any equipment or materials that qualify for exemption under subsection (d) of this section may accept an exemption certificate in lieu of tax from the manufacturer for the separately stated exempt materials sold under a separated contract. Taxable materials, such as foundation materials and items that are noted under subsection (c) of this section must be separately stated from qualifying equipment, or a single charge for qualifying and nonqualifying materials will be presumed taxable. When nonresidential repair, remodeling, or restoration of realty is performed, qualifying equipment should be separately stated from both nonqualifying materials and taxable labor. A lump-sum charge to repair, remodel, or restore nonresidential realty is presumed taxable. The presumption may be overcome by the service provider at the time the transaction occurs by separately stating to the customer a reasonable charge for the taxable services. However, if the charge for the qualifying manufacturing equipment is not separately stated at the time of the transaction, the service provider or the purchaser may later establish for the comptroller, through documentary evidence, the percentage of the total charge that relates to exempt qualifying manufacturing equipment. Examples of acceptable documentation include purchase invoices, bid sheets, or schedules of values. See §3.357 of this title (relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling, and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance). A lump-sum charge to perform new construction as covered in §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors) is not taxable. The contractor is the consumer of all the goods that the contractor uses in the performance of a lump sum new construction contract, and neither the contractor nor the manufacturer may claim an exemption on otherwise qualifying manufacturing equipment. (j) A taxpayer who claims an exemption under this section must prove that the exemption applies and that no exclusion under subsection (c) of this section applies. (k) Divergent use. (1) A manufacturer who issues a resale certificate to purchase tangible personal property tax free and subsequently uses the item for a nonexempt purpose must remit the tax to the comptroller based on the purchase price of the item or the fair market rental value of the item. See §3.285 of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale) and §3.346 of this title (relating to Use Tax). (2) A manufacturer who issues an exemption certificate to purchase tangible personal property tax free and subsequently uses the item for a nonexempt purpose is responsible for tax based on the divergent use. For divergent use that occurs prior to October 1, 2001, a manufacturer owes tax based on the purchase price or the fair market rental value of the equipment. See §3.287(e) of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates). For divergent use that occurs after September 30, 2001, a manufacturer owes tax based on the guidelines that are provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection. (3) A manufacturer must remit tax in the following manner on divergent use that occurs after September 30, 2001. (A) No tax is due if the divergent use occurs in any month after the fourth anniversary of the equipment purchase date. Equipment that is purchased before October 1, 1997, is not subject to tax on divergent use that occurs after October 1, 2001. (B) Except as provided by subparagraph (C) of this paragraph, a manufacturer owes tax on an item if the divergent use occurs in the month of, or during any month before, the fourth anniversary of the date of purchase. The amount of the tax that is due for the month in which the divergent use occurs is equal to 1/48 of the purchase price multiplied by the percentage of divergent use during that month multiplied by the applicable tax rate when the divergent use occurs. (i) The 48-month period that is used in calculating divergent use begins when the equipment is purchased. (ii) The amount of divergent use for a month can be measured either in hours or by applicable output as follows: (I) the divergent use percentage for a month is computed by taking the total divergent use hours of operation of the equipment in a month and dividing that amount by the total hours of operation of the equipment during the same month; or (II) the divergent use percentage for a month is computed by taking the total output of the equipment during the period of divergent use in a month and dividing that amount by the total output of that equipment during the same month. (C) A manufacturer who uses equipment in a divergent manner in the month of, or during any month before, the fourth anniversary of the date of purchase owes no tax on that use if the divergent use percentage in that month is 5.0% or less. "", '(D) A manufacturer who purchases non-capitalized equipment repair parts or consumables for equipment that is routinely used in both exempt and nonexempt manners may elect to pay tax on the repair parts or consumables by applying the divergent use percentage of the equipment as provided by paragraph (2)(B) of this subsection for the month during which the manufacturer purchased the repair parts or consumable items. (E) A manufacturer who purchases repair labor for equipment may owe tax if the manufacturer uses the qualifying exempt equipment for both exempt and nonexempt purposes. If the manufacturer was using qualifying equipment in an exempt manner at the time when the repair was needed, then no tax is due on the repair. If the manufacturer was using the qualifying equipment in a nonexempt manner when the repair was needed, then tax is due on the purchase price of the repair. If a manufacturer cannot determine whether the equipment was being used in an exempt or nonexempt manner at the time of the repair, then the manufacturer may pay tax on the purchase price of the repair multiplied by the divergent use percentage as provided by paragraph (2)(B) of this subsection for the month in which the purchase of the repair service was made. (F) The use of ""pharmaceutical biotechnology cleanrooms and equipment,"" as those terms are used in subsection (a)(14) of this section, to manufacture, process, or fabricate a pharmaceutical biotechnology product that is not sold is not a divergent use if the use occurs during the certification process by the United States Food and Drug Administration."
21|§3.301|Promotional Plans, Coupons, Retailer Reimbursement|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=301|(a) Trading stamps. (1) The sale of trading stamps to a retailer is a sale of intangible personal property and not taxable under the Limited Sales, Excise, and Use Tax Act. The sale to a retailer of catalogues, stamp books, advertising, or printed matter, or other tangible personal property used in connection with the conduct or promotion of his business is a sale of tangible personal property and subjects such retailer to liability for the sales or use tax, which tax must be collected and remitted in accordance with the terms of the Limited Sales, Excise, and Use Tax Act. When a retailer distributes trading stamps to customers along with the sale of merchandise, such stamps are considered to be given in addition to the merchandise, unless the terms of the sale reveal an intention that a part of the consideration is for the stamps. (2) The redemption of trading stamps by exchanging merchandise for them is a sale at retail of merchandise for a consideration. Trading stamp companies selling tangible personal property or redeeming trading stamps by exchanging merchandise for them or both are retailers. Trading stamp companies or other retailers so redeeming trading stamps must collect and remit to the state sales tax based on the redemptive value of the stamps surrendered or on the reasonable retail price of the taxable merchandise utilized in the transaction, whichever is the larger. (b) Games and concessions dispensing merchandise. (1) The operators of games, grab-bag concessions, or other operations similar in nature, in which each customer receives some merchandise or prize are regarded as retailers and must collect and remit to the State of Texas the sales tax; sales to these operators are sales for resale. Tax on the sales of such merchandise or prizes is due on the gross receipts from such operations, and a reimbursement tax shall be collected from their customers. If an operator disposes of both taxable and nontaxable items, his tax to the State of Texas will be measured by the percentage of his taxable sales to his total sales, but not less than the reimbursement taxes collected from his customers. Such operators may give their suppliers resale certificates for taxable items purchased. (2) The operators of games, or other concessions, in which each participant does not receive some merchandise or prize, become the consumers of merchandise so used by them and are liable to the State of Texas for tax based on the sales price or use of the taxable items purchased for use by them. Retailers selling taxable tangible personal property to such operators or concessionaires shall collect and remit to the state the tax due on the sales to them. The Texas use tax is due on out-of-state purchases of taxable tangible personal property based on the purchase price of the merchandise. (c) Gifts, samples, prizes, premiums. (1) Sales of taxable tangible personal property to persons who make gifts of the property or use the property for samples or advertising purposes are taxable. For an explanation of the taxability of an item purchased for use as a prize when the winning of the prizes depends upon chance or skill, see §3.298(f) (1) of this title (relating to Amusement Services). (2) Sales of taxable items to persons who give the property as a premium with bona fide sales of other taxable items are not sales for resale where no additional charge is made for such premiums. However, when a taxable item is given as a premium with an additional charge being made therefor, the premium is purchased for resale and sales tax should be collected on such additional charge. This does not apply to transactions in which trading stamps are used. (d) Cash discounts. The actual selling price of taxable tangible personal property is the measure of the tax due under the terms of the Limited Sales, Excise, and Use Tax Act. Bona fide cash discounts taken by the buyer at the time of the sale pose no problem, as they are never a part of the sales price and are never in the tax base. However, if cash discounts are taken after the amount of the sales have been used in the measure of the tax, such cash discounts may be deducted from the measure of tax liability for the reporting period in which such discounts are taken in which instance the retailer seeking an adjustment in his tax liability must show he has adjusted pro rata the reimbursement tax collected, if any, from his purchasers. Cash discounts so taken and becoming the basis of a tax adjustment between retailers, their purchasers, and/or the State of Texas, must be substantiated in the accounts, invoices, and records of such retailers to the satisfaction of the comptroller's office. (e) Coupons. When coupons or certificates are accepted by retailers as a part of the selling price of any taxable item, the value of the coupon or certificate is excludable from the tax as a cash discount, regardless of whether the retailer is reimbursed for the amount represented by the coupons or certificate.
22|§3.302|Accounting Methods, Credit Sales, Bad Debt Deductions, Repossessions, Interest on Sales Tax, and Trade-Ins|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=302|"(a) Accounting methods. (1) For sales and use tax purposes, retailers may use a cash basis, an accrual basis, or any generally recognized accounting basis that correctly reflects the operation of their business. Retailers who wish to use an accounting system to report tax that is not on a pure cash or accrual basis or that is not a commonly recognized accounting system should obtain prior written approval from the comptroller. (2) Paragraph (1) of this subsection does not apply to the reporting of sales tax on rentals and leases of tangible personal property. See §3.294 of this title (relating to Rentals and Leases of Taxable Items) for the accounting of rentals and leases. (b) Credit sales. (1) Credit sales include all sales in which the terms of the sale provide for deferred payments of the purchase price. Credit sales include installment sales, sales under conditional sales contracts and revolving credit accounts, and sales by a retailer for which another person extends credit to the purchaser under a retailer's private label credit agreement. (2) Sales tax is due on insurance, interest, finance charges, and all other service charges incurred as a part of a credit sale unless these charges are stated separately to the customer by such means as an invoice, billing, sales slip, ticket, or contract. (3) Tax is to be reported on a credit sale based upon the accounting method that the retailer uses. (A) If the retailer is on an accrual basis, the entire amount of tax is due and must be reported at the time the sale is made. (B) If the retailer is on a cash basis of accounting, the payment received from the customer includes a proportionate amount of tax, sales receipts, and may also include finance charges. Tax must be reported based upon the actual cash collected during the reporting period, excluding separately stated finance charges. (C) If the retailer uses an accounting basis that is not a pure cash or accrual basis, tax must be reported in a consistent manner that accurately reflects the realization of income from the credit sales on the retailer's books and records. (c) Transfer or sale of sales contracts and accounts receivable. A retailer may sell, factor, or assign to a third party the retailer's right to receive all payments due under a credit sale. At the time the contract or receivable is sold, factored, or assigned, the tax becomes due on all remaining payments. The retailer is responsible for reporting all remaining tax due under the credit sale to the comptroller in the reporting period in which the contract or receivable is sold, factored, or assigned. No reduction in the amount of tax to be reported and paid by the retailer is allowed if the transfer to the third party is for a discounted amount. This section does not apply to a seller's assignment or pledge of contracts or accounts receivable to a third party as loan collateral. (d) Bad debts. (1) Any portion of the sales price of a taxable item that the retailer or private label credit provider cannot collect is considered to be a bad debt. (A) A retailer is not required to report tax on any amount that has been entered in the retailer's books as a bad debt during the reporting period in which the sale was made, and that will be taken as a deduction on the federal income tax return during the same or subsequent reporting period. (B) A retailer is entitled to a credit for tax reported and paid on an account later determined to be a bad debt. A retailer may take a deduction on the retailer's report form, or obtain a refund from the comptroller, in the reporting period in which the retailer's books reflect the bad debt. Deductions and refunds due to bad debts are limited to four years from the date the account is entered in the retailer's books as a bad debt. (C) A retailer who extends credit to a purchaser on an account that is later determined to be a bad debt, a person who extends credit to a purchaser under a retailer's private label credit agreement on an account that is later determined to be a bad debt, or an assignee or affiliate of either who extends credit on an account that is later determined to be a bad debt, is entitled to a credit or refund for the tax paid to the comptroller on the bad debt. (2) The amount of the bad debt may include both the sales price of the taxable item and nontaxable charges, such as finance charges, late charges, or interest that were separately billed to the customer. A deduction may only be claimed on that portion of the bad debt that represents the amount reported as subject to tax. In determining that amount, all payments and credits to the account may be applied ratably against the various charges that comprise the bad debt, except as provided by paragraph (3) of this subsection. (3) A retailer, private label credit provider, or assignee or affiliate may not deduct from the amount subject to tax to be reported the expense of collecting a bad debt, or the amount that a third party has retained or which has been paid to a third party for the service of collecting a bad debt. (4) To claim bad debt deductions, the records of the person who claims the bad debt deduction must show: (A) date of original sale and name and Texas sales tax permit number of the retailer; (B) name and address of purchaser; (C) amount that the purchaser contracted to pay; (D) taxable and nontaxable charges; (E) amount on which the retailer reported and paid Texas tax; (F) all payments or other credits applied to the account of the purchaser; (G) evidence that the uncollected amount has been designated as a bad debt in the books and records of the person who claims the bad debt deduction, and that the amount has been or will be claimed as a bad debt deduction for income tax purposes; (H) city, county, transit authority, or special purpose district to which local taxes were reported; and (I) the unpaid portion of the assigned sales price. (5) A person who is otherwise qualified to claim a bad debt deduction, and whose volume and character of uncollectible accounts warrants an alternative method of substantiating the reimbursement or credit, may: (A) maintain records other than the records specified in paragraph (4) of this subsection if: (i) the records fairly and equitably apportion taxable and nontaxable elements of a bad debt, and substantiate the amount of Texas sales tax imposed and remitted to the comptroller with respect to the taxable charges that remain unpaid on the debt; and (ii) the comptroller approves the procedures used; or (B) implement a system to report its future tax responsibilities based on a historical percentage calculated from a sample of transactions if: (i) the system utilizes records provided by the person claiming the credit or reimbursement and the person who reported and remitted such tax to the comptroller; and (ii) the comptroller approves the procedures used. (6) The comptroller may revoke the authorization to report under paragraph (5)(B) of this subsection if the comptroller determines that the percentage being used is no longer representative because of: (A) a change in law, including a change in the interpretation of an existing law or rule; or (B) a change in the taxpayer's business operations. (7) A person who is not a retailer may claim a credit or reimbursement authorized by paragraph (1)(C) of this subsection only for taxes imposed by Tax Code, §151.051 or §151.101. (8) For purposes of this section, ""affiliate"" means any entity or entities that would be classified as a member of an affiliated group under 26 U.S.C. §1504. (9) If a retailer or other person later collects all or part of an account for which a bad debt deduction or write-off was claimed, the amount collected must be reported as a taxable sale in the reporting period in which such collection was made. (10) Credit or installment sales may not be labeled as bad debts merely for the purpose of delaying the payment of the tax. (e) Repossessions. (1) When taxable items upon which the retailer or other person has paid tax are repossessed, the retailer or other person is allowed a credit or deduction for that portion of the actual purchase price that remains unpaid. The deduction must not include any nontaxable charges that were a part of the original sales contract. Any payments that the purchaser made prior to repossession must be applied ratably against the various charges in the original sales contract. (2) A retailer or other person may not deduct from the tax to be reported the expense of collecting an account receivable, or the amount that a third party has retained or that has been paid to a third party for the service of collecting an account or repossessing or selling a repossessed item. (3) To claim a deduction or credit the person who claims the deduction or credit must be able to provide detailed records that show: (A) date of original sale and name and Texas sales tax permit number of retailer; (B) name and address of purchaser; (C) amount that the purchaser contracted to pay; (D) taxable and nontaxable charges; (E) amount on which retailer reported and paid Texas tax; (F) all payments or other credits applied to the account of the purchaser; (G) city, county, transit authority or special purpose district to which local taxes were reported; and (H) the unpaid portion of the sale price assigned. (4) Sales tax is due on the sale of a repossessed item, irrespective of whether a vendor, mortgagee, secured party, assignee, trustee, sheriff, or an officer of the court has sold the item, unless the sale is otherwise exempt. If the vendor, mortgagee, secured party, assignee, trustee, sheriff, or officer of the court does not collect the tax, the purchaser must remit the tax directly to the comptroller. (f) Interest on sales tax. This section will refer to the terms ""interest"" and ""time price differential"" as interest. The term ""credit"" includes all deferred payment agreements. (1) Sellers on a cash basis of accounting who sell taxable items on credit and charge interest on the amount of credit extended, including sales tax, are required to remit to the comptroller a portion of the interest that has been collected on the state and local taxes. (2) If the amount of interest charged on the tax is 18% or less, the seller must remit to the comptroller one-half of the interest charged on the tax. (3) If the amount of interest charged on the tax is greater than 18%, the seller must remit the amount of interest charged less 9%. For example, 21% charged less 9% deduction equals 12% interest remitted. A seller will not be allowed the 9% deduction if the interest rate charged on sales tax differs from the interest rate charged on the sales price of the taxable item. (4) In determining the amount of interest to be remitted to the comptroller, a seller does not need to calculate the interest on each individual account. A formula for the calculation may be used if the formula correctly reflects the amount of interest collected. The formula will be subject to verification upon audit of the taxpayer's records. (5) Except for the provisions of Texas Tax Code, §151.423 and §151.424, all reporting, collection, refund, and penalty provisions of Texas Tax Code, Chapter 151, including assessment of penalty and interest, apply to interest due. (g) Trade-ins. In this subsection, a trade-in is considered as a taxable item that is being used to reduce the purchase price of another taxable item. (1) The sales price of a taxable item does not include the value of a trade-in that a seller takes as all or part of the consideration for a sale of a taxable item of the same type that is normally sold in the regular course of business. For example, sales tax will be due only on the difference between the amount allowed on an old piano taken in trade and the sales price of a new piano. (2) The sales price of a taxable item does include the value of a trade-in that a seller takes as all or part of the consideration for the sale of a taxable item, if the trade-in is a different type from the type normally sold in the regular course of business. For example, a seller of pianos who takes a desk in trade as part of the sales price of a piano would collect sales tax on the retail sales price of the piano without any deduction for the value of the desk. In this situation, the seller and buyer are considered to be bartering. However, if a seller of pianos is also a seller of desks, the value of the desk would be allowed as a trade-in. (3) Persons who remove items from a tax-free inventory for use as a trade-in owe sales tax on the cost price of the items. If both parties to a transaction remove items from a tax-free inventory to trade for other items that each party will use, the transaction will be regarded as barters by both parties. Each party to the barter will be required to collect sales tax on the retail sales price of the item being transferred. For example, a retailer of drill pipe trades pipe to a retailer of aircraft in exchange for an aircraft. Both retailers are trading the respective items for use, not resale. The pipe retailer must collect sales tax on the retail sales price of the pipe. The aircraft retailer must collect sales tax on the retail sales price of the aircraft. (4) See §3.336 of this title (relating to Sales of Gold, Silver, Coins, and Currency) for information on persons who barter for taxable items with gold, silver, diamonds, or precious metals. (h) Tax Code, §111.064, provides that interest will be paid on tax amounts found to be erroneously paid and claimed on a request for refund or in an audit. See also §3.325 of this title (relating to Refunds, Interest, and Payments Under Protest). (1) Tax paid on an account that is later determined to be uncollectible and written off as a bad debt for federal tax purposes is not tax paid in error and does not accrue interest. (2) A request for refund, or an overpayment of tax in an audit, for a report period due before January 1, 2000, does not accrue interest."
23|§3.303|Transportation and Delivery Charges|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=303|"(a) Transportation charges for taxable items. The sales tax applies to all transportation or delivery charges to a customer when a taxable item is sold, leased or rented on or after October 1, 1987, and delivery charges are billed by the seller or lessor to the purchaser or lessee. The charges for transportation or delivery, both before and after the sale, are taxable even if stated separately from the sales price of a taxable item. These charges are considered to be services or expenses connected to the sale. (b) Charges by third party carriers. A third party carrier (separate legal entity) will not be responsible for collecting or remitting tax as long as the third party carrier only provides transportation and does not sell the taxable item being delivered. (c) Common terminology. The term ""transportation and delivery charges' includes all other terms used by common or contract carries to describe transportation, such as freight, shipping, delivery, or postage. (d) Postage charges. Separately stated charges for postage are not taxable when billed by the seller to a client if the cost of the postage was incurred by the seller at the request of the client to distribute taxable items to third party recipients designated by the seller's client."
24|§3.304|Morticians and Monument Builders|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=304|(a) Morticians. (1) The mortician is the consumer of all tangible personal property used, consumed, or furnished to the customer in rendering funeral services, regardless of whether or not a separate charge is stated for any such item. As the consumer, the mortician is required to pay the appropriate amount of tax at the time of purchase of all such tangible personal property used, consumed, or furnished in the performance of services. (2) If a mortician sells caskets, boxes, vaults, or other individual items of tangible personal property separately from an agreement to render funeral services, the mortician becomes a retailer and is required to have a limited sales tax permit, and must collect and report the tax on the agreed price of all such tangible personal property sold. Resale certificates may be given in lieu of the tax at the time of purchase only on those individual items purchased for resale. (b) Monument builders. (1) Monument builders are contractors when they install memorials such as tombstones, vaults, and similar items. The provisions of §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors) apply to their operations. (2) When a monument builder sells a product and no installation is provided, the total charge for the product is taxable. In this instance the monument builder is a manufacturer making a retail sale of the manufactured product.
25|§3.305|Criminal Offenses and Penalties|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=305|"(a) General. Tax Code, Chapter 151, prohibits certain  activities and provides criminal penalties for violations.  (b) Criminal offenses provided in Tax Code, Chapter  151, include, but are not limited to, the following:  (1) A seller commits an offense if the seller directly  or indirectly advertises or holds out to the public that the seller  will assume, absorb, or refund any portion of the tax, or that the  seller will not add the tax to the sales price of taxable items. This  offense is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $500  for each occurrence.  (2) A person commits an offense if the person intentionally  or knowingly makes a false entry in, or a fraudulent alteration of,  an exemption or resale certificate; makes, presents, or uses an exemption  or resale certificate with knowledge that it is false and with intent  that the certificate be accepted as valid; or intentionally conceals,  removes, or impairs the verity or legibility of an exemption or resale  certificate; or unreasonably impedes the availability of an exemption  or resale certificate. An offense is:  (A) a Class C misdemeanor if the tax avoided by the  use of the exemption or resale certificate is less than $20;  (B) a Class B misdemeanor if the tax avoided by the  use of the exemption or resale certificate is $20 or more but less  than $200;  (C) a Class A misdemeanor if the tax avoided by the  use of the exemption or resale certificate is $200 or more but less  than $750;  (D) a felony of the third degree if the tax avoided  by the use of the exemption or resale certificate is $750 or more  but less than $20,000; and  (E) a felony of the second degree if the tax avoided  by the use of the exemption or resale certificate is $20,000 or more.  (3) A person or officer of a corporation commits an  offense if the person or the corporation engages in business as a  seller in this state without a permit or with a suspended permit.  A separate offense is committed each day a person operates a business  without a permit or with a suspended permit. An offense is:  (A) a Class C misdemeanor for a first offense;  (B) a Class B misdemeanor punishable by a fine not  to exceed $2,000 for a second conviction;  (C) a Class A misdemeanor punishable by a fine not  to exceed $4,000 for a third conviction; and  (D) a Class A misdemeanor punishable by a fine not  to exceed $4,000, confinement in jail for a term not to exceed a year,  or both the fine and confinement for a fourth or subsequent conviction.  (4) A person commits an offense if the person intentionally  or knowingly fails to pay to the comptroller the tax collected by  that person. When tax is collected and not paid pursuant to one scheme  or continuous course of conduct, all such conduct may be considered  as one offense and the amounts of tax collected and not paid may be  aggregated in determining the grade of the offense. An offense is:  (A) a Class C misdemeanor if the amount of the tax  collected and not paid is less than $50;  (B) a Class B misdemeanor if the amount of the tax  collected and not paid is $50 or more but less than $500;  (C) a Class A misdemeanor if the amount of the tax  collected and not paid is $500 or more but less than $1,500;  (D) a state jail felony if the amount of the tax collected  and not paid is $1,500 or more but less than $20,000;  (E) a felony of the third degree if the amount of the  tax collected and not paid is $20,000 or more but less than $100,000;  (F) a felony of the second degree if the amount of  the tax collected and not paid is $100,000 or more but less than $200,000;  and  (G) a felony of the first degree if the amount of the  tax collected and not paid is $200,000 or more.  (5) A person commits an offense if the person refuses  to furnish a report as required by Tax Code, Chapter 151, or by the  comptroller. An offense is:  (A) a Class C misdemeanor for a first offense;  (B) a Class B misdemeanor punishable by a fine not  to exceed $2,000 for a second conviction; and  (C) a Class A misdemeanor punishable by a fine not  to exceed $4,000 for a third or subsequent conviction.  (6) A person commits an offense if the person intentionally  or knowingly conceals, destroys, makes a false entry in, or fails  to make an entry in records that are required to be made or kept under  Tax Code, Chapter 151. An offense is a felony of the third degree.  (7) A person commits an offense if the person fails  to produce or allow inspection of a record that is required to be  kept under Tax Code, Chapter 151, within an allowed period of time  after a person who is authorized by the comptroller requests the record.  Except as provided in paragraph (8) of this subsection, an offense  is a Class C misdemeanor. A separate offense is committed each day  the person fails to allow inspection of records or fails to produce  records after the allowed time period expired. See subsection (c)  of this section for certain restrictions.  (8) A person commits an offense if the person intentionally  fails to produce to the comptroller records that document the taxpayer's  taxable sale of items that the taxpayer obtained using a resale certificate.  The records to which the offense applies are those required to be  kept under Tax Code, §151.025 (Records Required to be Kept),  which were requested by the comptroller under Tax Code, §151.023  (Investigations and Audits) and which are not produced in the period  required by that section. The items to which the offense applies are  items the sales of which are required to be reported to the comptroller  under Tax Code, §§151.433 (Reports by Wholesalers and Distributors  of Beer, Wine, and Malt Liquor), 154.212 (Reports by Wholesalers and  Distributors of Cigarettes), or 155.105 (Reports by Wholesalers and  Distributors of Cigars and Tobacco Products). It is an affirmative  defense to prosecution under this paragraph that the items listed  for purchase on the resale certificate had not been resold at the  time of the comptroller's request for records under Tax Code, §151.023.  If the conduct described by this paragraph is related to one scheme  or continuous course of conduct, all such conduct may be considered  as one offense and the amounts aggregated in determining the grade  of the offense. See subsection (c) of this section for certain restrictions.  An offense is:  (A) a Class C misdemeanor if the tax avoided by use  of the resale certificate is less than $20;  (B) a Class B misdemeanor if the tax avoided by use  of the resale certificate is $20 or more but less than $200;  (C) a Class A misdemeanor if the tax avoided by use  of the resale certificate is $200 or more but less than $750;  (D) a felony of the third degree if the tax avoided  by use of the resale certificate is $750 or more but less than $20,000;  or  (E) a felony of the second degree if the tax avoided  by use of the resale certificate is $20,000 or more.  (c) Inspection and demand for production. Tax Code, §151.023  permits the comptroller to inspect business premises where a taxable  event has occurred and to issue a written demand notice to a taxpayer  or to an employee, an authorized representative, or agent of the taxpayer  for the production of documents within 10 business days of delivery  of the notice. This authority will be exercised within the parameters  outlined in §3.281(f) of this title (relating to Records Required;  Information Required). The comptroller may file criminal charges with  appropriate authorities for violations of Tax Code, §151.023,  if the taxpayer fails to permit inspection or fails to produce documents  in response to a demand by the comptroller's Enforcement Division  or Criminal Investigation Division.  (d) Confidential information. The comptroller or the  attorney general may use taxpayer information or records made confidential  by Tax Code, Title 2 to enforce Tax Code, Title 2 or the criminal  laws of Texas or the United States, or may authorize the use of information  or records made confidential by Tax Code, Title 2 in a judicial or  administrative proceeding in which this state, another state, or the  federal government is a party.  (e) Penal Code.  (1) Criminal conspiracy. Penal Code, §15.02 (Criminal  Conspiracy) and §15.04 (Renunciation Defense) apply to all criminal  offenses prescribed by the Tax Code.  (2) Organized crime. A person commits an offense under  Penal Code, §71.02, if the person, with the intent to establish,  maintain, or participate in a combination or in the profits of a combination  or as a member of a criminal street gang, commits or conspires to  commit a felony offense prescribed by the Tax Code. The terms ""combination,""  ""profits,"" ""criminal street gang,"" and ""conspires to commit,"" are  defined by Penal Code, §71.01.  (3) Money laundering. The definition of the term ""proceeds""  in Penal Code, Chapter 34 (Money Laundering) includes funds acquired  or derived directly or indirectly from, produced through, or realized  through conduct that constitutes an offense under Tax Code, §151.7032  (Failure to Pay Taxes Collected; Criminal Penalty and Aggregation  of Amounts Involved).  (f) Venue. The venue for prosecution of any offense  incurred under Tax Code, Chapter 151 is Travis County or the county  in which any element of the offense occurs. If prosecution for engaging  in criminal conspiracy, an organized criminal activity, or money laundering  is based upon an offense classified as a felony under the Tax Code,  the venue for prosecution of the conspiracy, organized criminal activity,  or money laundering is any county in which venue for the underlying  offense is proper under the Tax Code."
26|§3.306|Sales of Mobile Offices, Oilfield Portable Units, Portable Buildings, Prefabricated Buildings, and Ready-Built Homes|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=306|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms when  used in this section shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Bunkhouse--This term has the meaning given in §3.72  of this title (relating to Trailers, Farm Machines, and Timber Machines).  (2) Contract for the improvement to realty--A contract,  as described in §3.347(a) of this title (relating to Improvements  to Realty). Such a contract includes installation or set-up performed  to permanently affix a structure defined in this section to real property.  (3) House trailer--This term has the meaning given  in §3.72 of this title. (4) Installation or set-up--Activities associated with  either a contract for the improvement to real property or the temporary  placement of a structure defined in this section, including, but not  limited to, spotting the structure; preparing the foundation; connecting  separate sections of the structure, if any; placing, blocking, leveling,  and anchoring the structure; connecting sewer, water, electricity,  and other utilities; and installing skirting, awnings, and steps.  (5) Manufactured home--This term has the meaning given  in §3.481 of this title (relating to Imposition and Collection  of Manufactured Housing Tax). (6) Mobile office--A self-contained transportable structure  built on a permanent chassis, with or without wheels, axles, and a  towing device, that is designed to be used as an office, sales outlet,  or other work place, such as a self-contained portable bathroom or  a portable on-site dressing room. A food and beverage concession trailer  is an example of a towable structure designed to be used as a sales  outlet or other work place. (7) Oilfield portable unit. (A) A self-contained transportable structure built  on a permanent chassis, with or without wheels, axles, and a towing  device, designed to be used for temporary lodging or temporary office  space that: (i) does not require attachment to a foundation or  real property to be functional; (ii) is located exclusively upon, or immediately adjacent  to, the lease premises or assigned acreage of an oil, gas, water disposal,  or injection well located within an oil or gas lease, field, pooled  unit, or unitized tract; (iii) is used exclusively to provide sleeping accommodations,  temporary office space, or any other temporary work space for employees,  contractors, or other workers at an oil, gas, water disposal, or injection  well; and (iv) is not a travel trailer, camper trailer, or recreational  vehicle. (B) Examples of items that qualify as an oilfield portable  unit when located and used exclusively as provided in this paragraph  include, but are not limited to, a bunkhouse, trailer, semitrailer,  park model, house trailer, and manufactured home. For more information  regarding the taxation of travel trailers, camper trailers, and recreational  vehicles, refer to §3.72 of this title. (8) Park model--This term has the meaning given in §3.481  of this title. (9) Portable building--A self-contained transportable  structure that does not require attachment to a foundation or to realty  in order to be functional. An example of a portable building is a  tool shed. (10) Prefabricated building--A structure, not designed  to be a residential dwelling, built at a location other than its permanent  site, and that is later transported in one or more sections and affixed  to real property. (11) Ready-built home--A structure that does not bear  a label or decal issued by the Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation,  the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs, or the U.S.  Department of Housing and Urban Development, but that is designed  to be a residential dwelling which is constructed, precut, partially  assembled, or fabricated in whole or in part at a location other than  the home site and subsequently transported, in one or more sections,  to the home site, where it is assembled on a permanent foundation.  (12) Travel trailer or recreational vehicle--This term  has the meaning given in §3.72 of this title. (13) The terms mobile home, ready-built home, prefabricated  building, and portable building do not include a house trailer, as  defined in and subject to the provisions of Tax Code, Chapter 152,  or a manufactured home, as defined in and subject to the provisions  of Tax Code, Chapter 158. See §3.72 and §3.481 of this title.  (b) Application of the sales and use tax to mobile  offices, oilfield portable units, portable buildings, prefabricated  buildings, ready-built homes, and tangible personal property. (1) Mobile offices. A sale, lease, or rental of a mobile  office is a taxable sale of tangible personal property. Sales tax  is due on the total sales price charged by the seller, including charges  for delivery and installation or set-up, even if separately stated  on the invoice issued to the purchaser. See §3.303 of this title  (relating to Transportation and Delivery Charges) and §3.294  of this title (relating to Rental and Lease of Tangible Personal Property).  (2) Oilfield portable units. A sale, lease, or rental  of an oilfield portable unit is subject to sales tax. Sales tax is  due on the total sales price charged by the seller, including charges  for delivery and installation or set-up, even if separately stated  on the invoice issued to the purchaser. See §3.303 and §3.294  of this title. (A) An oilfield portable unit that ceases to be used  exclusively as an oilfield portable unit, as required by this section,  and that meets the definition of a motor vehicle, pursuant to Tax  Code, §152.001(3), is subject to tax imposed by Tax Code, Chapter  152. Examples include bunkhouses, trailers, semitrailers, park models,  or house trailers. For more information regarding the application  of the Motor Vehicle Sales Tax to oilfield portable units, refer to §3.72(c)  of this title. (B) The lease or rental of a manufactured home as defined  in §3.481 of this title that ceases to be used exclusively as  an oilfield portable unit as required by this section is subject to  hotel occupancy tax as provided under Tax Code, Chapter 156. (3) Portable buildings. A sale, lease, or rental of  a portable building is a taxable sale of tangible personal property.  Sales tax is due on the total sales price charged by the seller, including  charges for delivery and installation or set-up, even if separately  stated on the invoice issued to the purchaser. See §3.303 and §3.294  of this title. (4) Prefabricated buildings and ready-built homes.  (A) A contract to sell a prefabricated building or  a ready-built home is considered a contract for an improvement to  real property when the seller is required to build, transport, and  affix the structure to a permanent site. See §3.347 of this title.  If the contract requires the seller to perform installation or set-up  services, the seller's sales tax responsibilities are determined by  whether the contract is a lump-sum contract or a contract that separately  states charges for materials and labor. See §3.291 of this title  (relating to Contractors). (B) The sale of a ready-built home or a prefabricated  building that is not at the time of sale affixed to its permanent  site is a taxable sale of tangible personal property if sold to a  person responsible for affixing the structure to real property. (5) Structures deemed to be tangible personal property.  A sale of a structure that is affixed to real property is nonetheless  a taxable sale of tangible personal property if the purchaser is obligated  to remove the structure from its site. (6) Tangible personal property affixed to real property.  An ""in-place"" sale of items such as fixtures, machinery, and equipment  is considered a sale of tangible personal property if the seller:  (A) is a lessee of the real property or structure to  which the items are affixed; and (B) has the present right to remove the items either  as trade fixtures or under the express terms of the lease. Sales tax  is due on that portion of the total consideration allocable to the  in-place items without regard to the fact of their physical attachment  to real property. (c) Application of limited sales and use tax to manufactured  homes. (1) Limited sales or use tax is due on parts or accessories  installed in a manufactured home by the retailer of the manufactured  home, whether the home is sold alone or as part of a contract for  the improvement to realty. See §3.291 of this title. (A) If the retailer sells the home for a lump sum amount  that includes both the home and parts, the retailer should not collect  limited sales or use tax on the lump sum charge. The retailer must  pay limited sales or use tax on the parts at the time of purchase.  (B) If the retailer separates the charge to the customer  into one charge for the home and a separate charge for the additional  parts, the retailer must collect limited sales or use tax on the amount  charged for the parts. The retailer may issue a resale certificate  in lieu of tax when purchasing the parts. (C) If a third party sells and installs the items,  the installer's sales tax responsibilities are determined by whether  the contract separates charges for materials from charges for labor.  If the installer charges a lump-sum amount for materials and labor,  the installer should not collect tax on the lump-sum charge, and the  installer must pay limited sales or use tax on the parts at the time  of purchase. If the installer separately states the charges for materials  and labor, the installer must collect limited sales tax on the amount  charged for the parts, and the installer may issue a resale certificate  in lieu of tax when purchasing the parts. (2) A manufactured home affixed to real property, including  placement on a foundation and/or supporting, blocking, leveling, securing,  anchoring, and connecting multiple sections, is presumed to be an  improvement to real property for sales and use tax purposes. (3) Repair, remodeling, restoration and maintenance.  (A) Sales or use tax is not due on labor for the repair,  remodeling, restoration, and maintenance of a manufactured home affixed  to real property and used for residential purposes pursuant to §3.291  of this title. Residential use of a manufactured home occurs when  the building is occupied as a home or residence by the owner or by  a tenant who occupies the building under a contract for an express  initial term of more than 29 consecutive days. Absent a contract,  only the period exceeding 29 consecutive days will be considered residential  use, when supported by valid documentation, such as receipts or canceled  checks. (B) Sales or use tax is due on the repair, remodeling,  and restoration of a manufactured home affixed to real property and  used for nonresidential purposes pursuant to §3.357 of this title  (relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling, and  Restoration; Real Property Maintenance). (C) Sales or use tax is due on the repair, remodeling,  restoration, and maintenance of a manufactured home temporarily affixed  to real property pursuant to §3.292 of this title (relating to  the Repair, Remodeling, Maintenance, and Restoration of Tangible Personal  Property). A manufactured home temporarily affixed to real property  is deemed to be tangible personal property if the owner of the home  is a lessee of the real property to which the home is affixed and  is obligated to remove the home from the real property under the express  terms of the lease without regard to the home's attachment to the  real property. For example, a manufactured home used exclusively to  provide sleeping accommodations for employees, contractors, or other  workers at a construction site is temporarily affixed to the real  property."
27|§3.307|Florists|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=307|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Local tax--City (including industrial development corporation), county, mass transit authority, city transit department, county health services, emergency service district, and/or crime control district sales or use tax. (2) Local taxing jurisdiction--A local jurisdiction imposing local tax. (b) Sales tax is due on amounts charged by a Texas florist for taxable items delivered within Texas even though the florist taking the order instructs an unrelated florist to make delivery. The tax is not due on the amount received by an unrelated florist making the delivery. (c) Sales tax is due on amounts charged by a Texas florist for taxable items purchased in Texas for delivery outside the state. Tax is due whether the items are delivered by the florist who took the order or by an unrelated florist outside Texas who is instructed to make delivery. (d) Use tax is not due on amounts received by a Texas florist who makes deliveries in Texas at the instructions of an unrelated florist taking an order outside Texas. (e) Delivery charges, whether charged by a florist taking an order or by an unrelated florist, are taxable even though stated separately from charges for taxable items. (f) Sales tax is due on charges for telephone calls or telegrams even when separately stated to the customer. The florist may not give the provider of telecommunications services a resale certificate in lieu of tax. The telecommunications service is not resold to the florist's customer but is used by the florist in making sales of floral arrangements. The charge for the telecommunications service is passed on to the florist's customer as an expense connected with the sale of the arrangement. (g) Sales tax is not due on the purchase of wires, stems, vases, etc., which are later sold as part of a flower arrangement. See §3.300 of this title (relating to Manufacturing; Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating; Processing). (h) Local sales tax is due to the local taxing jurisdiction of a florist taking an order for a taxable item. Local tax is not due to the local taxing jurisdiction of an unrelated florist making delivery. (i) If a florist has more than one place of business, local sales tax is due based on the local taxing jurisdiction where the place of business taking the order is located. (j) Local use tax is not due when a florist located outside a local taxing jurisdiction takes an order and delivers the order into a local taxing jurisdiction or instructs an unrelated florist to make delivery in a local taxing jurisdiction. Local use tax is not due on amounts received by a Texas florist who makes a delivery in a local taxing jurisdiction at the instructions of an unrelated florist taking an order either outside the state or outside a local taxing jurisdiction.
28|§3.308|Computers--Hardware, Computer Programs, Services, and Sales|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=308|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Computer program--A series of instructions that  are coded for acceptance or use by a computer system and that are  designed to permit the computer system to process data and provide  results and information. The series of instructions may be contained  in or on magnetic tapes, semiconductor chips, punched cards, printed  instructions, or other tangible or electronic media.  (2) Contract programming--Services to create or develop  a new computer program, or to repair, maintain, modify, or restore  an existing computer program, when the person performing the services  did not sell, and retains no rights in, the computer program being  created, developed, repaired, maintained, modified, or restored.  (A) Examples of contract programming include:  (i) writing a new computer program to perform a particular  function for the customer where all rights in the program are transferred  to the customer;  (ii) customizing a computer program owned by the customer  or licensed to the customer by a third party; or  (iii) modifying a computer program or performing repair,  maintenance, or restoration on a computer program that the programmer  wrote for the customer under a prior contract programming agreement.  (B) Contract programming only occurs when the person  performing the programming services transfers all rights, including  intellectual property rights such as those rights arising from copyrights,  patents, and trade secret laws, to the computer program being created,  developed, modified, maintained, repaired, or restored to the purchaser  of the contract programming services. Notwithstanding other provisions  of this paragraph, a person performing contract programming services  may retain rights to property including materials, tools, methods,  and processes used in the performance of the service. A person performing  contract programming services may also retain rights to an incidental  program or incidental component of a program included under an agreement  to provide contract programming services. Examples of incidental programs  and incidental components of a program are installers, drivers, macros,  and subroutines.  (3) Internet hosting--Providing to an unrelated user  access over the Internet to computer services using property that  is owned or leased and managed by the provider and on which the user  may store or process the user's own data or use software that is owned,  licensed, or leased by the user or provider. The term does not include  telecommunications services.  (b) Hardware. (1) The sale, lease, or rental of computer hardware,  including central processing units and all peripheral equipment, parts,  and supplies, is subject to the sales and use tax. (2) A taxable rental or lease can occur without the  right to move the hardware if the lessee has total operational control  of the hardware. For example, a lessee may contract to use a computer  on the owner's premises for an exact period of time weekly. The lessee  provides the operator and all materials. During the time of use by  the lessee, no one else may use the hardware. This transaction constitutes  a transfer of the total operational control of the hardware, which  is a lease or rental of tangible personal property. However, if the  owner provides and directs the operator, operational control has not  been transferred to the lessee. The transaction will not be considered  the rental or lease of the hardware. Note: if the only supervision  provided by the owner is for maintenance or training on proper use,  this is not providing an operator. See §3.294 of this title (relating  to Rental and Lease of Tangible Personal Property). (3) Sales tax is due on charges for labor or services  rendered in installing or applying computer hardware. (4) Sales tax is due on charges for labor or services  rendered in remodeling, repairing, maintaining, or restoring computer  hardware. See §3.292 of this title (relating to Repair, Remodeling,  Maintenance, and Restoration of Tangible Personal Property). (5) Installation charges for remote terminals are taxable  whether or not separately stated. Charges for telephone lines are  taxable. (c) Computer programs and related services.  (1) Computer programs.  (A) The sale, lease, or license of a computer program  is a sale of tangible personal property. Tax is due when the computer  program, or a license to use the computer program, is transferred  for consideration in Texas, or stored, used, or consumed in Texas,  in electronic form or on physical media.  (B) Sales price. The sales price of a computer program  includes all charges made in connection with the sale of the program,  which may include charges for installation, modification, repair,  maintenance, or restoration, whether or not separately stated.  (C) The sales price of a computer program, or a single  license for a computer program, that is sold or used in Texas may  not be allocated to other states based on the purchaser making copies  of the program for use in another state; installing the program on  hardware located in another state; or accessing the program in another  state.  (2) Computer program repair, maintenance, and restoration.  Charges for computer program repair, maintenance, or restoration by  a person who sold the computer program are taxable. Computer program  repair, maintenance, or restoration includes error correction, technical  fixes, and technical support, whether provided over the Internet or  over the phone.  (3) Instruction. Separately stated charges for instruction  on the use of the computer program by a person who sold the computer  program are not taxable.  (4) Contract programming services. Contract programming  may result in the creation of tangible personal property, but it does  not constitute the sale thereof. Charges for contract programming  are charges for a service and are not taxable. (d) Sales. The following are examples of transactions  which involve the sale of taxable items and are taxable. (1) A separate charge for additional copies of the  result of services is taxable. (2) The charge for processing, printing, or producing  tangible personal property by a computer is taxable unless the processing,  printing, or producing is performed as an incidental part of a nontaxable  service. Examples of taxable processing, printing, or producing include  standardized amortization or depreciation tables, newsletters, and  advertising. (e) Sales for resale.  (1) A resale certificate may be issued by a purchaser  only if hardware or a computer program is purchased for the exclusive  purpose of resale. If the purchaser makes a taxable use of the hardware  or computer program while holding it for resale, the purchaser is  liable for sales tax. See §3.285 of this title (relating to Resale  Certificate; Sales for Resale).  (2) Internet hosting providers.  (A) A sale for resale includes the sale of a computer  program to an Internet hosting provider in a transaction that meets  all criteria in this subparagraph, regardless of whether care, custody,  and control of the computer program is transferred to the user of  the Internet hosting service. (i) The Internet hosting provider acquires the program  from an unrelated vendor for the purpose of selling the right to use  the program to an unrelated user of the provider's Internet hosting  services in the normal course of business and in the form or condition  in which the provider acquired the program;  (ii) the Internet hosting provider offers the unrelated  user a selection of computer programs that are available to the public  for purchase directly from an unrelated vendor;  (iii) the Internet hosting provider executes a written  contract with the unrelated user that specifies the name of the computer  program sold to the unrelated user and includes a charge to the unrelated  user for computing hardware;  (iv) the unrelated user purchases the right to use  the computer program from the Internet hosting provider through the  acquisition of a license; and  (v) the Internet hosting provider does not retain the  right to use the computer program under that license.  (B) The performance by the Internet hosting provider  of routine maintenance of the computer program that is recommended  or required by the unrelated vendor of the computer program does not  affect the application of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.
29|§3.310|Laundry, Cleaning, and Garment Services|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=310|"(a) Personal services means all services listed under Group  721, Major Group 72 of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972.  Personal services listed in Group 721 are laundry, cleaning, and garment services.  (b) Sales tax is due on laundry, cleaning, and garment services.  A person who performs these services is required to collect sales tax from  the customer. Examples of laundry, cleaning, and garment services include,  but are not limited to: (1) carpet cleaning and repairing, except carpet repairing  performed in residential structures; (2) diaper cleaning service; (3) drapery cleaning services; (4) dry cleaning services for garments or rugs; (5) fur garment cleaning, repairing, and storage; (6) garment alterations and repairs; (7) ironing or pressing garment services; (8) mending services; (9) power and hand laundry services; (10) rug cleaning, dying, and repairing services; (11) tailoring garments; (12) treating or applying protective chemicals to carpet, upholstery,  rugs, or drapery; (13) upholstery cleaning and repairs; (14) uniform or linen cleaning services that provide only the  services to clean or launder the customers' uniforms or linens; and (15) valet services. (c) A person who performs services that are taxable under this  section must pay sales tax on cleaning supplies (chemicals, soaps, etc.),  machinery, tools, utilities, and equipment used to perform laundry, cleaning,  and garment services. (d) A person who performs services that are taxable under this  section may issue a resale certificate in lieu of paying sales tax on the  purchase of items that are transferred to the customer as an integral part  of the laundry, cleaning, and garment personal services. Examples include  buttons and thread used in mending or tailoring. Examples of items transferred  in residential carpet, drapery, or upholstery cleaning include: carpet protectors,  fire retardants, antistatic applications, flea killers, and rust inhibitors.  See §3.285 of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale).  Wrapping and packaging supplies do not qualify for the resale exemption, and  sales tax is due on the purchase of wrapping and packaging supplies that are  used to provide taxable services, unless a laundry or dry cleaner purchases  the supplies as provided in subsection (j) of this section. (e) Sales tax is not due on personal services provided through  coin-operated machines that are operated by the customer. (f) Sales tax is not due on personal services if performed  by an employee for his employer as part of employee's regular duties for which  he is paid. Sales tax is due on personal services that are performed on a  contractual basis between two or more parties. (g) Sales tax is not due on repairs to carpet in residential  real property. See §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors). (h) Exemption for labor to restore real or tangible personal  property in a disaster area. (1) Labor to restore, including cleaning, laundering, repairing,  treating, or applying protective chemicals to, real or tangible personal property  is exempt if: (A) the amount of the charge for labor is separately itemized;  and (B) the repair is to property damaged within a disaster area  by the condition that caused the area to be declared a disaster area. (2) The exemption does not apply to tangible personal property  transferred as part of the repair. (3) In this subsection, ""disaster area"" means: (A) an area declared a disaster area by the governor of Texas  under Government Code, Chapter 418; or (B) an area declared a disaster area by the president of the  United States under 42 United States Code §5141. (i) Records must be kept on all personal services performed.  Sales tax is due on the total receipts if adequate records are not maintained.  See §3.281 of this title (relating to Records Required; Information Required).  (j) Sales tax is not due on wrapping, packing, and packaging  supplies that are purchased by a person who performs laundry or dry cleaning  services, if the supplies are used to wrap, pack, or package an item that  the person has pressed and dry cleaned or laundered in the regular course  of business. For the purpose of this section, wrapping, packing and packaging  supplies include hangers, safety pins, pins, inventory tags, staples, boxes,  paper wrappers, and plastic bags. A person who performs laundry or dry cleaning  services may issue an exemption certificate in lieu of paying tax to a supplier  at the time of the person's purchase of the supplies. See §3.287 of this  title (relating to Exemption Certificates). A person who owns coin-operated  or other self-service garment cleaning facilities is not considered to be  a laundry or dry cleaner."
30|§3.311|Auctioneers, Brokers, and Factors|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=311|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context indicates otherwise. (1) Auction or auctioning--The sale by an auctioneer of tangible personal property by competitive bid. (2) Auctioneer--A person who owns tangible personal property or to whom tangible personal property has been consigned and who offers the tangible personal property for sale at auction. (3) Broker--A person who brings other people together to bargain for the sale or purchase of taxable items. In absence of contractual provisions to the contrary, a broker: (A) may not have possession of property; (B) cannot cause title of property to be transferred to a purchaser without further action on the part of its owner; and (C) has disclosed to the purchaser the identity of the broker's principal. (4) Disclosed principal--A principal is considered to be disclosed if before or at the time of sale the purchaser has been given notice of the principal's identity. (5) Factor--A person who sells taxable items belonging to a principal on consignment. A factor: (A) has possession and control of property; (B) can cause title of property to be transferred to a purchaser without further action on the part of its owner; and (C) has not disclosed to the purchaser the identity of the factor's principal. (6) Principal--A person who employs a broker or factor to act in the principal's behalf in negotiating with a purchaser for the sale of a taxable item. (b) Responsibility of an auctioneer. (1) Sales tax is due from the purchaser on the sales price of taxable items sold at auction. (2) An auctioneer is responsible for collecting and remitting to the comptroller any tax due on the sale of taxable items sold at auction by the auctioneer. (3) An auctioneer who does not receive payment for the item sold, does not issue a bill of sale or invoice to the purchaser of the item, and who does not issue a check or other remittance to the owner of the item sold by the auctioneer is not considered a seller responsible for the collection of the tax. In this instance, it is the owner's responsibility to collect and remit the tax. (4) An auctioneer should not collect tax on the sale of items that are exempt from sales tax such as motor vehicles, real property, or livestock. (5) Sales tax is not due on a sale of a taxable item when the owner of the item subsequently reclaims the property at the auction. (c) Letter of waiver. A person, who is seeking an auctioneer's license and requires a letter of waiver as proof no sales tax permit is required, may request a letter of waiver from the comptroller. (1) A request for a letter of waiver from the comptroller as proof no sales tax permit is required must be in writing and must detail the basis or reason no sales tax permit is required. (2) If the items being auctioned are exempt from sales tax or if the auctioneer is not considered a seller, a letter of waiver will be issued. (3) A letter of waiver is valid only so long as there is no change in the fact situation as originally presented to the comptroller. (d) Responsibility of a broker. (1) Sales tax is due on sales solicited by a broker if the principal is a seller as defined by Tax Code, §151.008; and the sale would not otherwise meet the definition of an occasional sale as found in §3.316 of this title (relating to Occasional Sales; Joint Ownership Transfers; Sales by Senior Citizens' Organizations; Sales by University and College Student Organizations; and Sales by Nonprofit Animal Shelters). The principal is responsible for collecting and reporting the tax. (2) Sales tax is not due on sales solicited by a broker if the principal is not a seller and the sale would otherwise meet the definition of occasional sale as found in §3.316 of this title (relating to Occasional Sales; Joint Ownership Transfers; Sales by Senior Citizens' Organizations; Sales by University and College Student Organizations; and Sales by Nonprofit Animal Shelters). (e) Responsibility of a factor. Sales tax is due on sales made by a factor. A factor is required to collect and report tax on all sales. (f) Reference. Auctioneers and factors should refer to §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller's and Purchaser's Responsibilities).
31|§3.312|Graphic Arts or Related Occupations; Miscellaneous Activities|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=312|(a) Decorative or informative activities; graphic art. (1) Photographers, commercial artists, portrait painters, and persons who draw, paint, engrave, and etch are graphic artists. (2) Persons who paint or apply decorative material to tangible personal property are also engaged in graphic art activities. Examples of graphic artists performing decorative or informative activities include painting murals, pinstriping, or painting signs on motor vehicles. (3) Sales tax is due and should be collected by the graphic artist from the customer on the total charge for the art. (4) Persons who furnish their own supplies in pursuit of their work including photographers, commercial artists, portrait painters, etc., shall pay a tax on their supplies, equipment, and any other taxable items used by them. However, when supplies or materials will become an ingredient or component part of a finished product held for sale, the materials are not subject to tax at the time of purchase by the artist. See §3.300 of this title (relating to Manufacturing; Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating; Processing). (b) Printing, imprinting, word processing, and multiple reproduced computer-generated material. (1) Sales tax is due on the total charge for producing multiple copies of printed material regardless of the type of equipment used in the reproduction. (2) Multiple copies include computer-generated form letters produced with a slight variation which personalizes essentially the same letter. Tax applies to the entire charge without deduction for charges for setting up the machine, keyboarding, or assembling the material. Charges for providing additional copies are taxable regardless of whether the original was prepared using a typewriter or word processing equipment. (3) Sales tax is due on charges for furnishing original letters or other printed material prepared by using word processing or other data processing equipment. See §3.330 of this title (relating to Data Processing Services). (4) Persons who produce, process, print, or imprint tangible personal property, when the materials used in these processes have been furnished by the customer, must collect sales tax on the total charge for such work. This includes photo finishers, book binders, printers, and film developers. (c) Protective or maintenance activities. (1) The repair, remodeling, maintenance, and restoration of tangible personal property is a taxable service. The total amount charged the customer for labor and materials is subject to tax. (2) Persons who apply substances to tangible personal property, other than motor vehicles, private aircraft, and commercial vessels, for the purpose of protection or maintenance are covered by §3.292 of this title (relating to Repair, Remodeling, Maintenance, and Restoration of Tangible Personal Property). Examples of protective or maintenance activities for tangible personal property other than motor vehicles, private aircraft, or commercial vessels include painting, rustproofing, undercoating, chrome plating, and the application of polishes, waxes, and glazes. (3) Persons maintaining private aircraft, motor vehicles, or commercial vessels should refer to §3.359 of this title (relating to Motor Vehicle and Private Aircraft). When private aircraft, motor vehicles, or commercial vessels are being protected or maintained, such as the application of decorative molding, sunshield, and tinting to motor vehicles, it makes no difference if an item is being painted or repainted, coated or recoated, waxed or rewaxed. The taxability of the activity will be determined by the type of contract used, or, in absence of a contract, the type of billing, either lump-sum or separated, which is used by the provider of the activity. Persons repairing or maintaining aircraft other than private aircraft should refer to §3.297 of this title (relating to Carriers).
32|§3.313|Cable Television Service and Bundle Cable Service|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=313|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Bundled cable service--The provision of cable television  service and at least one other taxable service by a cable service  provider through a cable system for a single price. Other taxable  services may include, but are not limited to, telecommunications services,  as defined in §3.344 of this title (relating to Telecommunications  Services); Internet access services, as defined in §3.366 of  this title (relating to Internet Access Services); data processing  services, as defined in §3.330 of this title (relating to Data  Processing Services); information services, as defined in §3.342  of this title (relating to Information Services); and security services,  as defined in §3.333 of this title (relating to Security Services).  Services sold to a purchaser by a third party, rather than the cable  service provider, are not bundled cable services even if they are  provided by means of a cable system. (2) Cable service provider--A person who provides cable  television service or bundled cable service through a cable system. (3) Cable system--The system through which a cable  service provider delivers cable television or bundled cable service.  A cable system may comprise any or all of the following: tangible  personal property; real property; and other media, such as radio waves,  microwaves, or any other means of conveyance now in existence or that  may be developed. (4) Cable television service--The digital distribution  of video programming to purchasers by any means now in existence or  that may be developed. The term includes, but is not limited to, direct  broadcast satellite service (DBS); subscription television service  (STV); satellite master antenna television service (SMATV); master  antenna television service (MATV); multipoint distribution service  (MDS); multichannel multipoint distribution service (MMDS); fixed  programming; any audio portion of a video program; streaming video  programming provided via the Internet or other technology, regardless  of the type of device used by the purchaser to receive the service;  video on demand services or subscription services that allow purchasers  to choose from a library of available content; and any other video  programming provided in exchange for consideration. The term does  not include the provision of tangible personal property, such as video  content that has been downloaded by the purchaser or is stored on  a compact disc or other physical media, or the provision of telecommunications  services, as defined in §3.344 of this title. (5) Fixed physical connection--The place at a purchaser\'s  residence or business where the cable service provider or its agent,  or the purchaser, by agreement with the cable service provider, has  installed any materials or equipment that connect the purchaser to  the provider\'s cable system. For example, a coaxial cable connection  at a distribution box or an outdoor antenna or dish that connects  to a satellite receiver is a fixed physical connection. The connection  of equipment, such as a personal computer, Internet-ready television,  or other device that allows the purchaser to view content that is  not provided directly by the cable service provider, does not create  a fixed physical connection. (6) Nomadic access--The ability to access cable television  service or bundled cable service from multiple locations with or without  the use of a fixed physical connection. (7) Point of delivery--The physical address of the  purchaser\'s fixed physical connection or, in the absence of such connection,  the physical address of the purchaser at which the cable television  or bundled cable service is considered to be received, as determined  in subsection (g)(3) of this section. (b) Imposition of tax. The sale of cable television  or bundled cable service, and any services or expenses connected to  the provision of the service, are subject to sales and use tax. (1) Taxable charges include: (A) service connection fees. The term ""service connection  fee"" includes terms such as ""installation,"" ""connect,"" or ""reconnect;"" (B) charges for video programming services; (C) charges for tangible personal property, such as  converters, descramblers, and digital video recorders, transferred  to the care, custody, and control of purchasers as an integral part  of the services provided; (D) amounts billed to purchasers for repairs or maintenance; (E) municipal franchise fees; and (F) any licensing fees for the right to receive or  distribute a satellite signal. (2) Unrelated services. (A) A service will be considered as unrelated if: (i) it is not a cable television service or bundled  cable service, nor a service taxed under other provisions of Tax Code,  Chapter 151; (ii) it is of a type which is commonly provided on  a stand-alone basis; and (iii) the performance of the service is distinct and  identifiable. (B) Where nontaxable unrelated services and taxable  services are sold or purchased for a single charge and the portion  relating to taxable services represents more than 5.0% of the total  charge, the total charge is presumed to be taxable. The presumption  may be overcome by the taxable service provider at the time the transaction  occurs by separately stating to the purchaser a reasonable charge  for the taxable services. If the charge for the taxable portion of  the services is not separately stated at the time of the transaction,  the service provider or the purchaser may later establish for the  comptroller, through documentary evidence, the percentage of the total  charge that relates to nontaxable unrelated services. The service  provider\'s books must support the apportionment between exempt and  nonexempt activities based on the cost of providing the service or  on a comparison to the normal charge for each service if provided  alone. If the charge for exempt services is unreasonable when the  overall transaction is reviewed considering the cost of providing  the service or a comparable charge made in the industry for each service,  the comptroller will adjust the charges and assess additional tax,  penalty, and interest on the taxable services. (c) Deposits. A deposit that represents future payment  for cable television or bundled cable service is part of the sales  price of the service and is taxable when the deposit is used to pay  for the service. A deposit paid to receive equipment that is transferred  to the care, custody, and control of the purchaser as an integral  part of the service, such as a converter that is returned to the cable  service provider when the service is terminated, is not taxable. (d) Sales for resale. (1) Taxable services. A cable service provider may  issue a resale certificate to purchase a taxable service tax-free  in the following circumstances: (A) if the service will be transferred as an integral  part of the cable television or bundled cable service. For example,  if a cable service provider sells a bundled cable service that includes  data storage, and the provider purchases data storage capacity from  a third party, then the provider may issue a resale certificate to  the provider of the data storage capacity; or (B) if the service is performed on tangible personal  property that the cable service provider will transfer to the care,  custody, and control of the purchaser as an integral part of the cable  television or bundled cable service. For example, if a cable service  provider that provides digital video recorders or converters to purchasers  hires a third party to repair a digital video recorder or converter,  then the provider may issue a resale certificate to the repair service  provider in lieu of paying tax on the repair service. See §3.285  of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale). (2) Tangible personal property. A resale certificate  may be used to purchase tangible personal property tax free if care,  custody, and control of the property are transferred to the purchaser  of the cable television or bundled cable service as an integral part  of the service. For example, a cable service provider may issue a  resale certificate to the seller of remote controls that are provided  to purchasers of the cable television service as part of the sale  of the service. See §3.285 of this title. (e) Taxable purchases. (1) Taxable services. A cable service provider owes  tax on its purchases of taxable services that are not transferred  to purchasers as an integral part of a cable television or bundled  cable service, but are instead used by the cable service provider  in providing that service. (2) Tangible personal property. A cable service provider  owes tax on its purchases of equipment, supplies, and other items  that are not transferred to the care, custody, and control of purchasers  as an integral part of the cable television or bundled cable service,  but are instead used by the cable service provider to provide that  service. For example, a cable service provider owes tax on the satellite  receiving and transmitting equipment, cables, and wiring that it uses  to provide cable television service and that are not located on the  purchaser\'s premises. Taxable items that a cable service provider  purchases out of state and brings into Texas for use in providing  a cable television or bundled cable service are subject to Texas use  tax. See §3.346 of this title (relating to Use Tax). Credit will  be allowed against the use tax for any sales or use tax legally imposed  and paid to another state. See §3.338 of this title (relating  to Multistate Tax Credits and Allowance of Credit for Tax Paid to  Suppliers). (3) A cable television service provider may seek an  annual refund of Texas sales and use taxes paid on certain tangible  personal property directly used or consumed in providing cable television  services. See §3.345 of this title (relating to Annual Refund  Program for Providers of Cable Television, Internet Access, and Telecommunications  Services). (f) Real property rental. An owner of real property,  such as an apartment complex or hotel, that provides cable television  or bundled cable service to its residents or guests must collect sales  tax on any charge it imposes on residents or guests that is attributable  to the cable television or bundled cable service. If the owner does  not charge the residents or guests for the cable television or bundled  cable service, the owner is the consumer of the service and must pay  tax on that service and all services or expenses connected to the  provision of that service, in accordance with subsection (b) of this  section. (g) Local tax. (1) Cable service providers are required to collect  all local tax due on the sale of cable television or bundled cable  service, and on all services or expenses connected with the provision  of that service, in accordance with subsection (b) of this section,  based upon the point of delivery to the purchaser. For more information  regarding the calculation of local tax, see Tax Code, Title 3, Subtitle  C. (2) Direct-to-home satellite. The sale of cable television  or bundled cable service by means of direct-to-home satellite is exempt  from local tax under the Telecommunications Act of 1996, §602.  For purposes of this section, direct-to-home satellite refers to cable  television or bundled cable service that is transmitted directly to  a purchaser\'s premises, including a residence, hotel, or motel, without  use of ground receiving or distribution equipment, except at the purchaser\'s  premises or in the uplink process to the satellite. Tangible personal  property transferred to the care, custody, and control of the purchaser  as an integral part of the cable television or bundled cable service  is considered to be part of the service and is also exempt from local  tax. Equipment used by a cable service provider to provide direct-to-home  satellite cable television or bundled cable service is subject to  local sales and use taxes, unless otherwise exempt. (3) Point of delivery. (A) Service delivered through a fixed physical connection. (i) If a cable service provider delivers, or under  its contract with the purchaser is able to deliver, cable television  or bundled cable service, or any portion or element thereof, to the  purchaser by means of a fixed physical connection, then the address  of that fixed physical connection is the point of delivery, even if  the purchaser can access the service both through a fixed physical  connection and by means of nomadic access. (ii) Two or more fixed physical connections. If fixed  physical connections at two or more locations are associated with  a single account, then the service provider must collect local taxes  for each separately stated charge for cable television or bundled  cable service based upon the location of the fixed physical connection  to which the charge is allocable. For example, if a purchaser\'s account  is associated with coaxial cable connections in City A and in City  B, and the purchaser incurs a separately stated charge for a pay-per-view  movie that is provided through the coaxial cable connection in City  B, then the service provider should collect local taxes on the pay-per-view  charge using the City B location as the point of delivery. If the  service provider cannot determine the location of the fixed physical  connection to which a charge is allocable, then the point of delivery  is the location of the fixed physical connection designated by the  purchaser prior to or at the time of purchase. Information about a  purchaser\'s designated point of delivery must be maintained in the  seller\'s books and records. For example, if Cont\'d...', ""a purchaser's account  is associated with fixed physical connections at two or more locations,  and the purchaser incurs a separately stated charge for video programming  that is provided by means of nomadic access, then the point of delivery  is the location of the fixed physical connection designated by the  purchaser prior to or at the time of purchase. (B) Service delivered by mobile telecommunications  service provider. If the purchaser's account does not have a fixed  physical connection, and if the cable service provider is also a mobile  telecommunications service provider, then the point of delivery to  the purchaser is the purchaser's place of primary use of the mobile  telecommunications service, as that term is defined in §3.344  of this title. (C) Service delivered without a fixed physical connection.  If the purchaser does not have a fixed physical connection, and the  cable service provider is not a mobile telecommunications service  provider, then the point of delivery shall be: (i) the purchaser's mailing address in this state.  For example, if there is no fixed physical connection, but the cable  service provider sends invoices to the purchaser at a mailing address  in this state, or has on file in its books and records for the purchaser  a mailing address in this state, then the purchaser's Texas mailing  address is the point of delivery. A cable service provider acting  in good faith may rely upon a statement from a purchaser regarding  the purchaser's mailing address as provided in paragraph (4) of this  subsection, in which case the provider will not be held liable for  any additional tax, penalty, or interest if the comptroller subsequently  determines that the statement is invalid; or (ii) the address in this state that is associated with  the payment instrument used by the purchaser to pay for the service,  but only if the cable service provider cannot determine, or the purchaser  has not provided, a mailing address in this state under clause (i)  of this subparagraph. (4) Purchaser's rights and remedies. (A) Mailing address. If the point of delivery to the  purchaser is not a fixed physical connection under paragraph (3)(A)  of this subsection or the place of primary use under paragraph (3)(B)  of this subsection, then the purchaser may contact the cable service  provider to provide an accurate mailing address or to update the mailing  address already in the provider's books and records. The cable service  provider must then collect local tax on the sale of cable television  and bundled cable service to the purchaser based upon the point of  delivery determined in accordance with paragraph (3)(C)(i) of this  subsection using the information provided by the purchaser. (B) Refund. If a cable service provider collects local  sales tax from a purchaser in error, then the purchaser may request  a refund of that local sales tax from the comptroller in accordance  with the procedures set forth in §3.325 of this title (relating  to Refunds and Payments Under Protest). (5) Nomadic access. If a purchaser has an account with  nomadic access, the point of delivery is determined in accordance  with paragraph (3) of this subsection. (6) Tangible personal property. Tangible personal property  that is transferred to the care, custody, and control of the purchaser  as an integral part of a cable television or bundled cable service  is regarded as a component of that service and is subject to local  tax based upon the point of delivery to the purchaser in accordance  with paragraph (3) of this subsection. A cable service provider is  responsible for collecting local tax in accordance with Tax Code,  Title 3, Subtitle C on any other sale, lease, or rental of tangible  personal property. When a cable service provider charges a single  price for the provision of both cable television or bundled cable  service and tangible personal property that is not an integral part  of that service, such as the rental of compact discs containing video  programming, then the cable service provider must identify in its  contracts, invoices, or books and records that portion of each charge  that is attributable to the provision of tangible personal property  and must collect local sales tax upon that amount in accordance with  the provisions of the Tax Code governing the application of local  tax to the sale of tangible personal property. (7) Other taxable services. (A) A cable service provider providing a service other  than cable television or bundled cable service through a cable system  is responsible for collecting local tax on the separately stated charges  for that service in accordance with Tax Code, Title 3, Subtitle C,  or, if applicable, the specific provisions of the section of the title  that address the services provided. For example, a cable service provider  who provides an information service for a separate charge must collect  the local tax due on that charge in accordance with the provisions  of Tax Code, §321.203 and §323.203. (B) A service provider, other than a cable service  provider, who provides services through a cable system is responsible  for collecting local tax on those services in accordance with Tax  Code, Title 3, Subtitle C, or, if applicable, the specific provisions  of the section of the title that address the services provided."
33|§3.314|Wrapping, Packing, Packaging Supplies, Containers, Labels, Tags, Export Packers, and Stevedoring Materials and Supplies|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=314|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in  this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly  indicates otherwise. (1) Containers--Glass, plastic, or metal bottles, cans, barrels,  and cylinders. The term does not include any item of a type that is enumerated  in paragraph (4) of this subsection. (2) Manufacturers--Those persons covered by the provisions  of §3.300 of this title (relating to Manufacturing; Custom Manufacturing;  Fabricating; Processing). (3) Nonreturnable container--A container other than a returnable  container. (4) Packaging supplies--All internal and external wrapping,  packing, and packaging supplies including wrapping paper, wrapping twine,  bags, boxes, cartons, crates, crating material, pallets, tape, rope, rubber  bands, metal bands, labels, staples, glue, mailing tubes, excelsior, straw,  cardboard fillers, separators, shredded paper, ice, dry ice, cotton batting,  shirt boards, and hay lath. (5) Returnable container--A container of a kind customarily  returned for reuse by the buyer of the contents. (b) Manufacturers. (1) Sales or use tax is not due on containers or packaging  supplies purchased by manufacturers for use as a part of the completion of  the manufacturing process. For the purposes of this section, the manufacturing  process is complete when the tangible personal property being produced has  been packaged by the manufacturer as it will be sold. For example, toothpaste  may be sold at retail in a tube enclosed in a box. Multiple units of the boxed  toothpaste are placed in cardboard boxes by the manufacturer. A label is placed  on the cardboard boxes identifying the product. The manufacturer then places  these labelled boxes on a pallet and covers them with shrink-wrap for shipment,  either to the manufacturer's distribution center, the manufacturer's warehouse,  or to the manufacturer's customer. The toothpaste manufacturer may purchase  the tubes, boxes, labels, pallets, and shrink-wrap tax free. Any additional  packaging necessary to transfer the product from the manufacturer's distribution  center, or from the manufacturer's warehouse to the manufacturer's customer  would also be exempt from tax. (2) Sales tax is not due on internal or external wrapping,  packing and packaging supplies sold to a person for the person's own use,  stored for use, or used in wrapping, packing, or packaging newspapers as defined  in §3.299(a) of this title (relating to Newspapers, Magazines, Publishers,  Exempt Writings), including those distributed free of charge to the general  public. (3) Sales tax is not due on nonreturnable containers, if the  purchaser fills the container and sells the container with its contents. See  subsection (g)(3) of this section regarding returnable containers. (4) Sales or use tax is not due on ice used by manufacturers  and processors inside or outside a package in order to shape, form, preserve,  stabilize, or protect the contents of the manufactured product. (c) Sale of packaging supplies to persons other than manufacturers.  Sales or use tax is due on the sale of packaging supplies, including gift  wrapping supplies, to persons who repack tangible personal property prior  to sale, produce shippers who are not original producers, wholesalers, retailers,  and service providers other than laundry and dry cleaners for use in delivering,  expediting, or furthering in any way: (1) the performance of a taxable or nontaxable service; (2) the rental of tangible personal property; or (3) the sale of tangible personal property. (d) Gift wrapping supplies. Sales tax is due on the purchase  price of gift wrapping supplies used by persons providing gift wrapping services.  (1) Tax must be paid on the purchase price of gift wrapping  by the person who provides the service whether or not the item being gift  wrapped was sold by the person providing the service. (2) Tax must be collected on a charge for gift wrapping if  the person who provides the gift wrapping service sold the item that is being  wrapped and does not provide the service on a stand-alone basis. (e) Combination businesses. A business that primarily manufactures  tangible personal property for sale may also purchase tangible personal property  for resale that was manufactured by another entity. If the business is primarily  a manufacturer, all packaging supplies may be purchased tax free even though  a portion of the packaging supplies are used in repackaging a product. For  example: (1) fast-food restaurants are considered to be primarily processors  of tangible personal property for sale. The restaurant may also sell tangible  personal property without further processing, such as soft drinks, doughnuts,  or candy. The fast-food restaurant may purchase all packaging supplies tax  free even though a portion of the packaging supplies are used in packaging  or serving a nonprocessed product; (2) a grocery store purchases tangible personal property for  resale, but also processes food and food products. A grocery store's meat  department or snack bar may be processing as well as re-packaging food and  food products. If the packaging supplies used by the departments that process  are clearly distinguishable from those packaging supplies used in the nonprocessing  department, the processing department's packaging supplies may be purchased  tax free. (f) Purchases for resale. A person who purchases packaging  supplies for resale ""as is,"" not as part of a packaged product, may purchase  the packaging supplies tax free by issuing a resale certificate in lieu of  paying tax. (g) Containers. Sales or use tax is not due on: (1) containers when sold with the contents, if sales or use  tax is not due on the sales price of the contents; (2) nonreturnable containers when sold without the contents  to persons who place the contents in the container and sell the contents together  with the container. Throwaway glass bottles are examples of nonreturnable  containers; (3) returnable containers when sold with the contents in connection  with the retail sale of the contents or when resold for refilling. An example  is a person who sells oxygen with an oxygen cylinder. The oxygen seller must  pay sales or use tax on the oxygen cylinder at the time of purchase. If the  oxygen purchaser returns the cylinder to be refilled, then no tax is due on  the cylinder in that transaction. (h) Labels and tags. Sales or use tax is due on labels and  tags unless they are used as discussed in subsection (b) or are purchased  by the type of persons who are described in subsection (k) of this section.  (i) Export packers. (1) An export packer is a person who packages property to be  exported outside the territorial limits of the United States. (2) Crating and packaging supplies as listed in subsection  (a)(4) of this section, when purchased by an export packer to export personal  property, are exempt under Tax Code, §151.307, whether used to package  the export packer's property, that of vendors shipping such property to their  foreign customers, or that of purchasers who contract and pay for such services.  (3) An export packer may give exemption certificates to suppliers  on material purchases but must maintain records showing which materials were  used for the exempt purpose of exporting tangible personal property. (4) The export packer need not obtain a sales or use tax permit  if all crating and packing supplies are purchased for exporting tangible personal  property. (j) Stevedoring services. Materials and supplies are exempt  when purchased by a person providing stevedoring services for a ship or vessel  operating exclusively in foreign or interstate coastal commerce if the materials  and supplies are loaded aboard the ship or vessel and are not removed before  the departure of the ship or vessel. (k) Laundry and dry cleaners. Sales tax is not due on hangers,  safety pins, pins, inventory tags, staples, boxes, paper wrappers, and plastic  bags that are purchased by a person who performs laundry or dry cleaning services,  if the items are used to wrap, pack, or package an item that the person has  pressed and dry cleaned or laundered in the regular course of business. See §3.310  of this title (Relating to Laundry, Cleaning, and Garment Services)."
34|§3.315|Motor Vehicle Parking and Storage|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=315|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) College, university, and public school students, faculty, and staff--Any person who is: (A) registered as a current student and who is enrolled in a course of instruction at the school; (B) paid or employed by the school to provide classroom instruction or academic research; (C) otherwise employed as a full-time or part-time employee of the school; or (D) a volunteer sanctioned by the school to participate in school activities, events or other functions. (2) Parking facility--A parking facility is a real property structure, such as a lot or garage, whether improved or unimproved, where parking is permitted for a fee. The term includes areas, which are specifically designed and used for parking, but may at times be rented or leased for purposes other than parking. (3) Parking permits and decals--Motor vehicle parking permits and decals represent registrations of motor vehicles or individual persons for parking privileges. (4) College--For the purpose of this section, an institution of higher education that is exempt from sales tax either as a governmental entity under Tax Code, §151.309, or as a nonprofit educational organization under Tax Code, §151.310(a)(1). See §3.322 of this title (relating to Exempt Organizations). (5) University--For the purpose of this section, an institution of higher education that is exempt from sales tax either as a governmental entity under Tax Code, §151.309, or as a nonprofit educational organization under Tax Code, §151.310(a)(1). See §3.322 of this title. (6) Voluntary gratuity--A gift of money or other item of value given freely by the purchaser to a parking attendant over and above the sales price of the parking service. (b) Sales tax is due on the charge for parking and storage of a motor vehicle. Examples include charges for parking meters, either private or municipally owned, permits for parking or storage in lots or garages, impound fees, charges for valet parking services, and parking facility lease or rental. If the charge for parking and storage either includes a charge for transportation such as shuttle services, or is in addition to a separately stated charge for transportation, sales tax is due on the entire charge, including any separately stated charges for transportation, other than motor vehicle towing provided by licensed tow truck operators. Motor vehicle towing charges are not subject to sales tax. Persons who repossess motor vehicles for creditors are providing taxable debt collection services rather than towing services, and should refer to §3.354 of this title (relating to Debt Collection Services) for more information. (c) A boot fee by a private parking lot or garage is subject to sales tax. The private parking lot or garage does not owe sales tax to the booting company. A boot fee by a city or other local government entity is not subject to sales tax. (d) If a contract for the lease or rental of real property includes a charge for motor vehicle parking and storage, sales tax is due on the motor vehicle parking or storage charge. If one agreement includes motor vehicle parking, and another agreement for similar property does not, any monetary difference may be considered as evidence of the value of the parking. (e) The person who provides the parking or storage service must pay sales or use tax on all taxable items that are purchased for use in providing the service. The service provider may make tax-free purchases of taxable services that are provided to the customer as an integral part of the motor vehicle parking and storage service. The service provider may also make tax-free purchases of tangible personal property that is transferred to the care, custody, and control of the customer. Examples include decals or ticket stubs that are transferred to the customer. See §3.285 of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale). (f) Colleges, universities, and public schools are not required to collect sales tax on charges for parking permits and decals issued to their students, faculty, or staff for campus parking. (1) Charges to the general public for parking are taxable. (2) Charges to students, faculty, or staff for parking not covered by a permit or decal, such as parking at special events such as concerts or sporting events, are taxable. (3) Colleges, universities, and public schools are not required to collect sales tax on any parking that is included, without separate charge, as part of a sale of an amusement service, if the amusement service is exempt under Tax Code, §151.3101(a)(1) or (5). (g) Sales tax is not due on the charges for the use of parking meters or visitor parking facilities funded or operated by the Texas State Preservation Board or by the Texas State History Museum for visitors of the Capitol complex in Austin, Texas. (h) A rental or lease of a parking facility is presumed to be taxable. (1) If a parking facility is rented or leased for a purpose other than parking, then the charge is not taxable. For example, a rental might include the lease of a parking facility for a flea market. The lessor must collect tax unless the lessor receives and retains documentation, such as an exemption certificate or contract, clearly describing the nontaxable activity. (2) The lump-sum rental or lease of a parking facility for an event, wherein there will be a combination of parking and a nontaxable use of the facility, is taxable as the provision of motor vehicle parking. A separately stated charge for the use of the area in the facility that is not devoted to motor vehicle parking is not taxable. The separately stated charges for the motor vehicle parking and the nontaxable use must, however, represent a reasonable allocation based on the area used for motor vehicle parking and the nontaxable use. (i) Valet parking services. Valet parking services are taxable regardless of whether compensation for the service is received directly from the owner of the parked vehicle or from a third party such as a restaurant or nightclub; or, the parking service is provided at the service provider's location or on the purchaser's own property. (1) A provider of valet parking services must collect tax on the total amount charged to a person under a contract to provide valet parking services to the person's guests, patrons, employees or others. (2) A person who provides parking services to others during the normal course of business for a separately stated charge may issue a resale certificate in lieu of tax to a valet parking service provider. That person must collect tax on the total amount charged to patrons for the service. A resale certificate cannot be issued when valet parking is provided to patrons free of charge or as an incidental part of another service. (3) Tax is due on a mandatory charge to an individual for valet parking service. A voluntary gratuity given by a vehicle owner to a parking attendant is not taxable. See §3.337 of this title (relating to Gratuities). (j) Local tax. Local sales and use tax is due based on the location where the parking service occurs.
35|§3.316|Occasional Sales; Transfers Without Change in Ownership; Sales by Senior Citizens' Organizations; Sales by University and College Student Organizations; and Sales by Nonprofit Animal Shelters|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=316|"(a) Sales exempt. A taxable item that is sold or purchased  by way of an occasional sale is exempt from sales and use taxes, except  as provided by subsection (i) of this section.  (b) Occasional sales by persons not in the business  of selling, leasing, or renting.  (1) One or two sales of taxable items, other than an  amusement service, during any 12-month period by a person who does  not hold himself out as engaged (or who does not habitually engage)  in the business of selling taxable items are occasional sales.  (2) The third sale of a taxable item in a 12-month  period by a person not previously in the business of selling, leasing,  or renting taxable items causes that person to become a retailer.  Tax must be collected and reported on the third sale and all subsequent  sales unless the sale qualifies for exemption under paragraph (4)  of this subsection or subsection (d) or (e) of this section. If three  or more sales are made in a 12-month period, then the person must  obtain a permit. See §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller's  and Purchaser's Responsibilities, including Nexus, Permits, Returns  and Reporting Periods, and Collection and Exemption Rules). Example:  A lump-sum contractor sells a backhoe in October, a typewriter in  December and a crane in February. The contractor has not sold, leased  or rented any construction equipment prior to the sale of the backhoe;  therefore, the contractor can sell the backhoe and typewriter tax  free as occasional sales. The sale of the crane is the third sale  within 12 months from the sale of the back-hoe. The sale of the crane  is not an occasional sale. The contractor must obtain a permit, collect  tax on the sale of the crane and, until an intervening 12 months have  passed between sales, all subsequent sales of taxable items.  (3) The sale of not more than ten admissions for amusement  services during a 12-month period by a person who does not hold himself  out as engaged (or who does not habitually engage) in the provision  of amusement services are occasional sales.  (4) The sale of tangible personal property by an individual  is an occasional sale if:  (A) the property was originally purchased by the individual  or a member of the individual's family for either of their personal  use;  (B) the individual does not hold a sales tax permit  and is not required to hold a sales tax permit;  (C) the sale is not made through the use of an auctioneer,  broker, or factor, other than an online auction; and  (D) the total receipts from such sales do not exceed  $3,000 in a calendar year. If the total receipts from the individual's  sales of such tangible personal property exceed $3,000 in a calendar  year, the individual must obtain a sales tax permit and collect tax  on all sales of taxable items in this state, beginning with the first  sale which causes the total receipts to exceed $3,000.  (5) The exemption provided under subsection (b) of  this section does not apply to a rental or lease of a taxable item. (c) Persons who hold permits.  (1) Persons who hold themselves out as engaged in the  business of selling, leasing, or renting taxable items and persons  who sell, lease, or rent three or more taxable items in a 12-month  period are retailers for the purposes of this section. Also, persons  who sell more than 10 admissions for amusement services during a 12-month  period are retailers for the purposes of this section.  (2) Sales that retailers and other persons who hold  sales or use tax permits make are not occasional sales, even if the  sales are not made in the regular course of business (e.g., a restaurant  owner sells a dining table). All sales by a retailer or permit holder  are subject to tax, unless the sales qualify for exemption under subsection  (d) or (e) of this section.  (3) Sales that persons who hold direct payment permits  make are not occasional sales. All sales by direct payment permit  holders are subject to tax unless the sales qualify for exemption  under subsection (d) or (e) of this section.  (d) Sale of a business or an identifiable segment of  a business.  (1) The sale of the entire operating assets of a business  or of a separate division, branch, or identifiable segment of a business  is an occasional sale. The lease or rental of an identifiable segment  does not qualify as an occasional sale.  (2) The sale of the entire operating assets of a separate  division, branch, or identifiable segment of a business is an occasional  sale if, prior to the sale, the income and expenses attributable to  the separate division, branch or identifiable segment could be separately  established from the books of account or record. (3) For the purposes of this section, a ""separate division,  branch, or identifiable segment"" means an enterprise engaged in providing  a product or service to customers, usually for a profit. ""Income""  means revenue generated by the enterprise in providing that product  or service. ""Expenses"" mean those operating expenses incurred by the  enterprise in providing the product or services that are directly  traceable to that enterprise. ""Operating assets"" means tangible personal  property used exclusively by the enterprise in providing the product  or service but does not mean tangible personal property maintained  and used both for general business purposes and by the specific enterprise.  Inventory and intangible property are not operating assets for purposes  of the exemption. (4) The entire operating assets of the business or  of the division, branch, or identifiable segment of the business must  be sold in a single transaction to a single purchaser. The sale of  the entire operating assets through several transactions to several  purchasers does not qualify as an occasional sale under this section. (e) Transfer without change in ownership.  (1) Any transfer of all or substantially all the property  held or used by a person in the course of an activity, when after  such transfer the real or ultimate ownership of such property is substantially  similar to that which existed before such transfer, is an occasional  sale. Since ownership must be transferred, ""transfer"" does not include  the lease or rental of property.  (2) For the purposes of this section, stockholders,  bondholders, partners, or other persons who hold an interest in a  corporation or other entity are regarded as having the ""real or ultimate  ownership"" of the property of such corporation or other entity. Ownership  is ""substantially similar"" if the person who transfers the property  owns 80% or more of the stock in the corporation to which the transfer  is being made. Ownership is ""substantially similar"" if 80% or more  of the stock in the corporation that makes the transfer is owned by  the transferee.  (3) ""All or substantially all"" of the property is considered  transferred if 80% or more is transferred.  (f) Occasional sales as defined in subsections (d)  and (e) of this section are not restricted by subsections (a) and  (b) of this section. Three or more sales of the type defined in subsections  (d) and (e) of this section would not result in the loss of the occasional  sale exemption.  (g) Resale certificates - occasional sales - leases. (1) When a lessor purchases a taxable item tax free  for rental or lease and later sells, leases, or rents the item by  way of an occasional sale as provided in subsection (d) or (e) of  this section, then the lessor owes tax on the amount by which the  lessor's purchase price exceeds the amount of rent, if any, upon which  tax has been collected and reported from the prior rental or lease  of the item.  (2) If the item was exempt from sales tax when originally  purchased by the lessor or if tax was paid on the full purchase price  at the time of purchase by the lessor, then the lessor does not incur  sales tax liability on the original purchase price when sold by way  of an occasional sale as provided in subsection (d) or (e) of this  section.  (h) Purchases exempt from tax. The purchase price of  an item that is sold by means of an occasional sale is not subject  to tax, except as provided in subsection (i) of this section.  (i) Exception to subsection (h) of this section. A  person who holds a permit that is issued pursuant to Tax Code, Chapter  151, and who makes a purchase in a transaction on which the seller  is not required to collect tax under subsection (b) of this section,  must accrue and remit tax to the comptroller on the transaction. (j) Senior citizens' organizations. Sales that a senior  citizens' organization makes are exempt from tax if all of the following  qualifications are met:  (1) all of the taxable items sold are manufactured,  produced, made, or assembled exclusively by persons 65 years old or  older;  (2) the sale is part of a fund-raising drive held or  sponsored by a nonprofit organization created for the sole purpose  of providing assistance to elderly persons;  (3) all net proceeds from the sale go to either the  organization or the person who produced the taxable item sold or both;  and  (4) the organization has not conducted more than four  separate fund-raising drives each calendar year for a total of not  more than 20 days per year.  (k) University and college student organizations. (1) A sale of a taxable item by a qualified student  organization is exempt from sales tax if:  (A) the student organization sells the items at a sale  that lasts for one day only, and the primary purpose of the sale is  to raise funds for the organization;  (B) the student organization holds not more than one  fund-raising sale each calendar month for which the exemption is claimed;  (C) the student organization has as its primary purpose  a purpose other than being engaged in business or performance of an  activity that is designed to make a profit; and  (D) the sales price of the taxable item is $5,000 or  less, except that a taxable item that the organization manufactures  or has received by donation may be sold tax free during the one-day  sale, regardless of sales price, if the item is not sold to the donor. (2) A taxable item acquired tax free under paragraph  (1) of this subsection is exempt from use tax on its storage, use,  or consumption until the item is resold or subsequently transferred. (3) The first $5,000 of a qualified student organization's  total receipts from sales of taxable items in a calendar year that  are not exempted under paragraph (1) of this subsection are exempt  from sales tax.  (4) A qualified student organization must be affiliated  with an institution of higher education as defined by Education Code, §61.003,  or a private or independent college or university that is located  in this state and that is accredited by a recognized accrediting agency  under Education Code, §61.003. A student organization must file  with the comptroller a certification issued by the institution, college,  or university showing that the organization is affiliated with the  institution, college, or university. A college, university, or institution  may designate one of its departments or officers to compile a list  of registered or certified student organizations and submit the list  to the comptroller in lieu of having each student organization submit  individual certifications. The certification is valid until the institution,  university, or college notifies the comptroller that a student organization  is decertified, suspended, or otherwise loses its campus privileges  or affiliation with the institution, university, or college.  (l) Sales by religious, educational, charitable organizations,  and organizations classified as 501(c)(3), (4), (8), (10), or (19).  (1) A religious, educational, charitable, eleemosynary  organization, or an organization exempt under Internal Revenue Code, §501(c)(3),  (4), (8), (10), or (19) that has been granted exempt status by the  comptroller, and each bona fide chapter of an exempt organization,  is not required to collect sales tax on the sales price of taxable  items sold for $5000 or less at a sale or auction held by the organization  or chapter only twice a calendar year and each sale or auction lasting  only one day. See §3.322 of this title (relating to Exempt Organizations).  Additionally, a taxable item may be sold tax free during a one-day  tax-free sale or auction, regardless of price, if the item is one  that the organization manufactured or has received by donation and  the item is not sold to the donor.  (2) One day is a consecutive 24-hour period. If a designated  tax-free sale or auction exceeds a consecutive 24-hour period, the  organization or chapter may not hold another tax-free sale or auction  that calendar year. An organization or chapter may hold the two tax-free  sales or auctions consecutively, but the two tax-free sales or auctions  by that organization or chapter cannot exceed a maximum of 48 consecutive  hours in a calendar year.  (3) The organization may employ an auctioneer to conduct  the sale or auction and pay the auctioneer a reasonable fee not to  exceed 20% of the gross receipts.  (4) If two or more exempt organizations or chapters  jointly hold a tax-free sale or auction, each is considered to have  held a tax-free sale or auction during that calendar year. Each exempt  organization that participates in a joint one-day tax-free sale or  auction may hold one other tax-free sale or auction during the remainder  of that calendar year.  (m) Sales by nonprofit animal shelters. The sale, including  the acceptance of a fee for adoption, of an animal by a nonprofit  animal shelter is exempt from sales and use taxes. The term ""animal  shelter"" is defined in Health and Safety Code, §823.001, as a  facility that keeps or legally impounds stray, homeless, abandoned,  or unwanted animals."
36|§3.317|Massage Parlors, Escort Services, and Turkish Baths|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=317|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Escort service--A business that provides for a fee an employee as an escort, date, or bodyguard. An escort service does not include motor escorting or armored car service. (2) Massage parlor--A business that provides massage services for a fee. A massage parlor does not include the following, even though massages may be part of their services: health clubs, health spas, hospitals, nursing homes, sanitariums, athletic departments, licensed physical therapists, registered massage therapists, beauty spas, reducing salons, scalp treatments, or slenderizing salons. A massage parlor does include Turkish baths and any business not previously listed that provides massages as at least one of its services. (3) A Turkish bath--A business in which a customer first uses a steam room and then obtains a massage or rubdown. (b) Sales tax is due on all services provided by massage parlors, Turkish baths, or escort services. (c) Sales tax is due on utilities, equipment, towels, and machinery used to perform personal services. (d) Records must be kept on all services provided by massage parlors, Turkish baths, and escort services. For more detailed information about records required, see §3.281 of this title (relating to Records Required; Information Required).
37|§3.318|Water-Related Exemptions (Tax Code, §§151.314, 151.315, and 151.355)|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=318|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Brush control--The selective control, removal, or reduction from watershed rangelands of noxious mesquite, prickly pear, salt cedar, or other deep-rooted woody plants to enhance the availability of water. A brush control service that frees up water is not a taxable real property service as defined in §3.356 of this title (relating to Real Property Service). (2) Desalination--The removal of salts from non-potable or brackish surface water or groundwater so that the water is useable freshwater or high-quality drinking water. (3) Political subdivision--A city, county, district, authority, or any other political subdivision of the State of Texas, any interstate compact commission to which the State of Texas is a party, and any nonprofit water supply corporation that is created and operated under Water Code, Chapter 67. (4) Precipitation enhancement--Cloud seeding to artificially induce rain clouds to produce rain. (5) Rainwater harvesting--The capture and storage of rainwater for subsequent use. (6) Reduction or elimination of water use--The use of devices, services, or supplies for the sole purpose of saving water. (7) Regional water supply or waste water system--A system that the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality certifies as a regional system. (8) Water recycling and reuse--The recapture of water for reuse. (b) The following are exempt from sales and use tax. Equipment, services, or supplies when used solely for: (1) brush control. Examples of equipment and supplies that are used in brush control include bulldozers, root plows, crawler tractors, hydro axes, chains, roller choppers, aerial sprayers, sling blades, grass seed, and herbicides; (2) desalination; (3) precipitation enhancement. Examples of equipment that is used in precipitation enhancement include aircraft, global positioning systems, weather radar equipment, and seeding chemicals; (4) reduction or elimination of water use. For example, a toilet dam is used to reduce the amount of water used; (5) construction or operation of a: (A) regional water supply or waste water system; or (B) water supply or waste water system by a private entity as a public-private partnership as certified by a political subdivision that is a party to the project; (6) rainwater harvesting; or (7) water recycling and reuse. (c) Effective date. The effective date of the exemption that is described in subsection (b) of this section is September 1, 2001. A purchaser who claims the exemption must give the seller a properly completed exemption certificate. The purchase, lease, or rental of such items prior to September 1, 2001 is taxable, unless otherwise exempt. (d) Divergent use. A person who claims a valid exemption on the purchase, lease, or rental of an item described in subsection (b) of this section, and who then uses the item in a taxable manner, is required to report and pay sales tax to the comptroller based on the fair market rental value of the tangible personal property or fair market value of the taxable service for the period of time that the item is used in a taxable manner. At any time, a purchaser may elect to pay sales tax on the purchase price of the item, but no credit is allowed for taxes that were previously paid based on fair market value. See §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates). (e) Taxable services performed on exempt items. A person who performs a repair, restoration, remodeling or maintenance service to tangible personal property described in subsection (b) of this section is not required to collect sales tax on that service if the customer provides a properly completed exemption certificate. This exemption applies to services that are performed on or after September 1, 2001. (f) Water. The sales tax law specifically exempts the sale of water, including spring water, sparkling water, or mineral water, from sales or use tax. The exemption includes the sale of bottled water and water that a restaurant or any other food service provider sells. An exemption certificate is not required. Flavored water (carbonated or non-carbonated) is a soft drink and is taxable. See §3.293 of this title (relating to Food; Food Products; Meals; Food Service) for further information on soft drinks. The sale of brine water, other than naturally occurring brine water, is taxable. (g) Rural Water Assistance Fund. A nonprofit water supply corporation or a nonprofit sewer service corporation is exempt from paying sales tax on the purchase, lease, or rental of tangible personal property and on the purchase of taxable services for projects that the Rural Water Assistance Fund finances. The nonprofit corporation must keep records that clearly show which taxable items were purchased for projects that the Rural Water Assistance Fund financed. (h) Economically Distressed Areas Program (EDAP). A nonprofit water supply corporation or a nonprofit sewer service corporation is exempt from paying sales tax on the purchase, lease, or rental of tangible personal property and on the purchase of taxable services for projects that EDAP finances for an economically distressed area as defined in Water Code, §17.921(1). The nonprofit corporation must keep records that clearly show which taxable items were purchased for projects that the EDAP financed.
38|§3.319|Prior Contracts|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=319|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Bid--A written offer by a seller directed to a specific person making a binding commitment to perform a contract for specified work and labor or for supplying specified taxable items at a specified price. A general statement by a seller listing current prices is not a written bid. (2) Contract--A written agreement between two persons binding one party to perform specified work and labor or to supply specified taxable items to another party at a specified price. A purchase order issued by a purchaser may qualify as a contract only if signed and dated by the seller. (3) Enabling legislation--A bill passed into law by the Texas Legislature that authorizes an exemption for prior contracts or bids. (4) Prior contract or bid--A bid offered or a contract signed before any change in the tax rate or tax base. A purchase order issued by the purchaser prior to a rate change is not a prior contract unless signed and/or fulfilled by the seller prior to the rate change. (5) Third-party contract--A contract between the purchaser of the items for which exemption is claimed and a party other than the seller of the items for which exemption is claimed. (b) Exemptions. (1) Tax rate increase. Taxable items purchased, leased, or rented for use in the performance of a third-party contract or bid signed on or before the date provided for prior contracts in the enabling legislation are exempted from the amount of the increase in the tax rate. (2) Tax base increase. Taxable items purchased, leased, or rented that are the subject of a contract or bid signed on or before the date provided for prior contracts in the enabling legislation are exempted from a change in the tax base. (c) Exceptions. (1) Cancellation clauses. A cancellation clause in a contract will not cause the loss of a prior contract exemption. (2) Change orders. Change orders that constitute additions to the contract or increases in coverage or taxable items, labor or services added to the contract are not included in the prior contract exemption. The original part of the contract may still retain its prior contract exemption if the change orders can be separately identified. (3) Renewals or extensions. Any renewal or exercise of an option to extend the terms (either by action of either party to the contract or automatically) will be considered a new contract. (4) Price changes. A contract will not lose the prior contract exemption solely due to a change in price if: (A) the parties intend that the contract shall remain binding regardless of the change in price; and (B) the contract does not expressly provide that changes in price terminate the contract. (5) Tax pass-through clauses. Any contract whose terms state the customer will be liable for any tax rate increases or for the applicable tax rate will not qualify for the prior contract exemption, even though the contract was in effect prior to the tax rate change. Such phrases are intended to transfer the burden of the tax increase from the seller to the customer and violate the statutory qualifications for exemption. Note: this paragraph applies only to tax rate increases and not to new services added to the tax base. (6) Fixed-price/as-needed terms. Contracts that contain a fixed price that must be paid whether or not the service is performed, and specify the work to be performed by type and quantity, and contracts that state that ""services or taxable items will be supplied as needed or upon request"" will qualify as prior contracts if they otherwise meet the requirements of this section. (7) Bids vs. contracts. A bid submitted prior to a change in the tax rate or base and a contract signed after the change pursuant to that bid will qualify for the prior contract exemption if the terms of the contract are substantially similar to the original bid. (8) Transfer of contracts. With the exception of contracts that may be substantially changed or modified, a contract that is transferred by either party will retain its prior contract exemption so long as the transferee is bound by the original terms of the contract. (d) Records. Persons claiming the prior contract exemption must maintain records which may be verified by audit. Failure to maintain adequate records subject to examination by the comptroller results in an automatic loss of the exemption. Written notice of prior contracts or bids should not be sent to the comptroller; however, the prior contracts or bids should be available for review upon request. (e) Prior contracts/limitations. This section applies only when there is enabling legislation. The effective date and statute of limitations date on prior contracts will also be governed by the enabling legislation. (f) Identification number. An identification number is required on prior contract exemption certificates furnished to sellers. The identification number should be the person's sales or use tax permit number, if the person issuing the certificate is required to hold a permit under the terms of the Tax Code. If a permit is not required, the person's federal employer's identification (FEI) number or social security number may be used. A suggested form for the exemption certificate is a part of this section. Attached Graphic"
39|§3.320|Texas Emissions Reduction Plan Surcharge; Off-Road, Heavy-Duty Diesel Equipment|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=320|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Off-road, heavy-duty diesel equipment--Diesel-powered  equipment of 50 horsepower or greater, other than motor vehicles and  equipment used directly in oil and gas exploration and production  at an oil or gas well site. See §3.96 of this title (relating  to Imposition and Collection of a Surcharge on Certain Diesel Powered  Motor Vehicles) for information about the imposition of the surcharge  on motor vehicles. Off-road, heavy-duty diesel equipment includes  accessories and attachments sold with the equipment. Off-road, heavy-duty  diesel equipment includes, but is not limited to, the following diesel-powered  equipment:  (A) backhoes;  (B) bore equipment and drilling rigs, except drilling  rigs used to drill oil and gas wells;  (C) bulldozers;  (D) compactors (plate compactors, etc.);  (E) cranes;  (F) crushing and processing equipment (rock and gravel  crushers, etc.);  (G) dumpsters and tenders;  (H) excavators;  (I) forklifts (rough terrain forklifts, etc.);  (J) graders;  (K) light plants (generators) and signal boards;  (L) loaders;  (M) mining equipment;  (N) mixers (cement mixers, mortar mixers, etc.);  (O) off-highway vehicles and other moveable specialized  equipment (equipment, such as a motorized crane, that does not meet  the definition of a motor vehicle because it is designed to perform  a specialized function rather than designed to transport property  or persons other than the driver);  (P) paving equipment (asphalt pavers, concrete pavers,  etc.);  (Q) rammers and tampers;  (R) rollers;  (S) saws (concrete saws, industrial saws, etc.);  (T) scrapers;  (U) surfacing equipment;  (V) tractors; and  (W) trenchers.  (2) Surcharge--A fee imposed on the sale, lease, or  rental in Texas of new or used off-road, heavy-duty diesel equipment  and on the storage, use, or other consumption of such equipment subject  to use tax as provided for in §3.346 of this title (relating  to Use Tax). This surcharge is in addition to state and local sales  and use taxes that are due on the equipment and is for the benefit  of the Texas Emissions Reduction Fund, which is administered by the  Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.  (3) Sales price--The total amount a purchaser pays  a seller for the purchase, lease, or rental of off-road, heavy-duty  diesel equipment as set out in Tax Code, §151.007. The sales  price includes charges for accessories, transportation, installation,  services, and other expenses that are connected to the sale.  (b) Imposition of Surcharge.  (1) A surcharge is due on the sales price of off-road,  heavy-duty diesel equipment sold in Texas. If the purchaser takes  possession of or title to the equipment on or after September 1, 2015,  the surcharge is 1.5% of the sales price. If the purchaser took possession  of or title to the equipment on or after July 1, 2003, and before  September 1, 2015, the surcharge is 2.0% of the sales price.  (2) A surcharge is due on the sales price, excluding  separately stated interest charges, of off-road, heavy-duty diesel  equipment leased under a financing lease, as defined in §3.294  of this title (relating to Rental and Lease of Tangible Personal Property).  If the lessee takes possession of the equipment on or after September  1, 2015, the surcharge is 1.5% of the sales price. If the lessee took  possession of the equipment on or after July 1, 2003, and before September  1, 2015, the surcharge is 2.0% of the sales price.  (3) A surcharge is due on the lease payments for off-road,  heavy-duty diesel equipment that is leased under an operating lease,  as defined in §3.294 of this title. If the lessee takes possession  of the equipment on or after September 1, 2015, the surcharge is 1.5%  of the lease payments. If the lessee took possession of the equipment  on or after July 1, 2003, and before September 1, 2015, the surcharge  is 2.0% of the lease payments.  (4) A surcharge is due on the sales price of off-road,  heavy-duty diesel equipment purchased, leased, or rented out of state  and brought into Texas for use. If the purchaser brings the equipment  into Texas for use on or after September 1, 2015, the surcharge is  1.5% of the sales price. If the purchaser brought the equipment into  Texas for use on or after July 1, 2003, and before September 1, 2015,  the surcharge is 2.0% of the sales price. See §3.346 of this  title.  (5) A 1.0% surcharge is due on off-road, heavy-duty  diesel construction equipment sold, leased, or rented if the purchaser  took possession of or title to the equipment on or after August 31,  2001 and before July 1, 2003. No surcharge is due on equipment sold,  leased, or rented during this time period if the equipment is subject  to use tax or is used in non-construction activities.  (c) Collection of surcharge. A seller must collect  the surcharge from the purchaser on the sales price of each sale,  lease, or rental in Texas of off-road, heavy-duty diesel equipment  that is not exempt from sales tax. The surcharge is collected at the  same time and in the same manner as sales or use tax. See §3.286  of this title (relating to Seller's and Purchaser's Responsibilities)  for information on the collection and remittance of sales or use tax.  The surcharge is collected in addition to state and local sales or  use taxes but is not collected on the amount of the sales or use tax.  (d) Exemptions. No surcharge is collected on the sale,  lease, or rental of off-road, heavy-duty diesel equipment that is  exempt from sales and use tax. A seller who accepts a valid and properly  completed resale or exemption certificate, direct payment exemption  certificate, or other acceptable proof of exemption from sales and  use tax is not required to collect the surcharge. For example, a seller  may accept an exemption certificate in lieu of collecting sales tax  and the surcharge from a farmer who purchases a bulldozer to be used  exclusively in the construction or maintenance of roads and water  facilities on a farm that produces agricultural products that are  sold in the regular course of business.  (e) Reports and payments.  (1) A seller or purchaser with a surcharge account,  including a direct payment holder, must report and pay the surcharge  in the same manner as sales or use tax, but separate reports and payments  for the surcharge are required.  (A) A seller's or purchaser's reporting period (i.e.,  monthly, quarterly, or yearly) and due date for the surcharge are  determined by the amount of surcharge that the seller collects or  purchaser owes. See §3.286 of this title.  (B) A purchaser who does not hold a surcharge account  must report and pay the surcharge by the 20th day of the month following  the month in which the purchaser acquired off-road, heavy-duty diesel  powered equipment on which the seller did not collect the surcharge.  (2) A seller or purchaser must report and pay the surcharge  to the comptroller on forms prescribed by the comptroller for the  surcharge. A seller or purchaser is not relieved of the responsibility  for filing a surcharge report and paying the surcharge by the due  date because the seller or purchaser fails to receive the correct  form from the comptroller.  (3) The penalties and interest imposed for failure  to timely file and pay the surcharge are the same as those imposed  for failure to timely file and pay sales or use tax. Likewise, the  0.5% discount for timely filing and payment is applicable to surcharge  reports and payments. No prepayment discount will be paid a seller  or purchaser for prepayment of the surcharges.  (f) Expiration. The surcharge expires on the last day  of the state fiscal biennium during which the Texas Commission on  Environmental Quality publishes in the Texas  Register the notice required by Health and Safety Code, §382.037.
40|§3.321|Advertising Agencies|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=321|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Acting as agent-- (A) The advertising agency has: (i) disclosed to its supplier that it is acting as agent for the client designated on the advertising agency's purchase order or in some other written documentation; and (ii) maintains accounting records and invoices which evidence that the billing to its clients, except for service charges, is identical to that paid to suppliers. (B) In the absence of such documentation, the advertising agency shall be conclusively presumed to be a seller of tangible personal property and not the agent of its client(s). (2) Employee-fabrication--The actual assembly or production of finished art or other taxable items by employees of the advertising agency. It includes the incorporation by the employees of items which become a component of the finished art or other taxable items. (3) Employee-fabricated property--Any finished art or other taxable items produced by means of employee fabrication. (4) Finished art--The final art, assembly, or formulation representing the ultimate product to be used for reproduction by photomechanical or other process, used by the client for display or other advertising purposes. Examples: all camera-ready art, drawings, architectural delineations, paintings, retouched photographs, lettering, assembly of elements, and show cards. (5) Nontangible services--Unless related to the sale of employee-fabricated property or the sale of other taxable items, the following are examples of nontangible services: (A) account supervision; (B) account service; (C) creative concept development;  (D) consultation service; (E) supervision of any kind not related directly and solely to employee fabrication of taxable items; (F) public relations; (G) setting up press conferences; (H) writing copy for use in any medium; (I) media placement, advertising time, and space charges to client; (J) market research individualized for one client; (K) postage or freight charges occurring after the sale (see §3.303 of this title (relating to Transportation and Delivery Charges); (L) residuals; (M) retainers (reserve right to services of advertising agency or actors, models, etc.); (N) commissions or fees granted or allowed by suppliers or media; (O) media placement fees, commissions, or discounts allowed to advertising agencies by media upon placement of advertising; (P) secretarial or clerical fees; (Q) telephone, telex, telegraph charges; and (R) travel or transportation expenses not directly and solely related to the fabrication of taxable items. (6) Preliminary art--Roughs, visualizations, layouts, and comprehensives submitted by an advertising agency to its clients for the client's approval of the advertising concept or message prior to the preparation of finished art. (7) Service charges--The charges, commissions, or other compensation received by the advertising agency, however measured or computed, and whether or not related to the acquisition or disposition of taxable items. Standard methods of compensation include: (A) the standard agency commission allowed by the supplier or media; (B) the handling fee or service charge for outside purchases for the client; (C) billable time for creating, directing, consulting, copywriting, or other nontangible services; and (D) retainer fees which would be a charge agreed upon between agency and client for the overall handling of their advertising. (8) Taxable items--All tangible personal property and taxable services. (b) Advertising agency acting as agent of client. (1) An advertising agency may act as the agent of its client-principal in dealing with others. To the extent that it acts as an agent in acquiring taxable items, the advertising agency is neither the purchaser of the property nor is it a seller of the property to its client-principal. When the advertising agency acquires taxable items as agent, title to the property passes directly from the supplier to the client-principal. The agency may not issue the agency's resale certificate to a supplier in lieu of tax. (2) When an advertising agency acts as an agent of its client in the purchase of taxable items, the supplier will add the tax to the net amount billed to the agency. Unless the items purchased are for resale by the client, the agency is responsible for paying sales tax to the supplier on the amount so billed. If the supplier fails to add the tax to the amount billed the agency, it is the agency's responsibility to remit the tax directly to the state. The client-principal is liable to the agency for payment of the tax on the net amount billed. The handling or service fee charged for these purchases is considered nontaxable. If the item purchased is for resale by the client, the client's resale certificate may be issued to the supplier in lieu of sales tax. The resale certificate must show the client's sales tax permit number. (3) An advertising agency may not act as the agent of its client-principal when providing employee-fabricated property. The agency is the seller of such property and the provisions of subsection (c)(2) and (3) of this section apply. (c) Advertising agency acting as a seller to a client. (1) When an advertising agency purchases a taxable item with the intent to resell it to its client, the agency is a seller of such property and acts as a retailer. (2) All employee-fabricated property will be taxable to the client. Examples: finished artwork for print advertising, photographs, records, or supplies used in broadcast. Sales tax is applicable to the charge to the client by the advertising agency for employee-fabricated property. (3) An advertising agency may issue a resale certificate to suppliers in lieu of tax for any item that the agency resells before use or that becomes physically an ingredient or component part of the taxable item sold. Examples: illustration board, paint, ink, rubber cement, flap paper, wrapping paper, photographs, photostats, or art purchased from other artists. See §3.285 of this title (relating to Sales for Resale; Resale Certificates). (4) Sales tax is due on the charge to the customer for employee fabrication and on the cost of items purchased for resale to the customer such as: (A) photographs and additional prints; (B) photostats, line negatives, offset negatives; (C) type composition; (D) finished art; (E) photo retouching; (F) research sold to public (not a single client); (G) printed materials: annual reports, stationery, brochures, direct mail, business cards, ad reprints, sale literature, point-of-purchase materials; (H) outdoor poster paper; (I) radio and television dubs; (J) electrical transcriptions (see §3.309 of this title (relating to Electrical Transcriptions, Recording Studios, Producers));  (K) motion picture films (see §3.350 of this title (relating to Audiovisual Works)). (L) video tapes (see §3.350 of this title (relating to Audio-visual Works)). (d) Advertising agency as a consumer. The advertising agency is the consumer and ultimate user of taxable items utilized in the customary conduct of its business operations. This category includes property such as office furniture, equipment, stationery, and other office supplies. The agency owes sales tax on the property purchased in Texas or use tax if purchased outside the state and brought into Texas for use. See §3.346 of this title (relating to Use Tax). (e) Exempt charges. Sales tax is not due on the advertising agency's charge to its customers for: (1) nontangible services except taxable services. See §3.292 of this title (relating to Repair, Remodeling, Maintenance and Restoration of Tangible Personal Property); (2) Service charges for acquisition of property from third party suppliers as agent, or acquisition of property from third party suppliers as sellers. (3) Preliminary article. Any portion of preliminary art that becomes physically incorporated into the finished art shall be taxable. To be considered nontaxable, charges for all preliminary art must be separately stated and identifiable on agency's internal records. (f) Records required. Each advertising agency must maintain sufficient records that provide the following. (1) Art time records must clearly distinguish layout and preliminary art from finished art. (2) Supplier or media invoices identifying by client the net amount paid, and tax paid, if any. (3) Employee-fabricated property must be easily identifiable on agency internal records. (4) Invoices to clients need not show taxable and nontaxable items separately. The tax due on any invoice need not be shown, but the agency must indicate on the invoice that tax is included on those items subject to tax and the agency must be able to document the amount of tax included on that invoice from its internal records. (5) Commissions, handling, or service fees must be easily determinable on agency records. (6) All certificates, receipts, and/or invoices verifying each deduction from gross sales of nontaxable items listed as follows must be kept on file: sales for resale, sales to exempt organizations, sales to persons using the property in a manner exempt by law, sales of items which are shipped to out-of-state locations by the seller, bad debts, repossessions, returned goods, nontaxable labor and services charges, sales of nontaxable items. (7) Records must be maintained for a four-year period. (g) Seller's responsibilities. For responsibilities of sellers and filing requirements, see §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller's Responsibilities).
41|§3.322|Exempt Organizations|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=322|"(a) General policy. This section is administered using  the following guiding principles. (1) Because exemptions are not favored under the laws  of the State of Texas, the provisions of this section shall be strictly  interpreted. (2) An organization must show by clear and convincing  evidence that it meets the requirements of this section and the relevant  statutes. Any unresolved question about the qualifications of an organization  will result in denial of exempt status. (b) Entities that must prove exempt status. Entities  or organizations that may qualify for exempt status include: (1) a nonprofit charitable or eleemosynary organization  that devotes all or substantially all of its activities to the alleviation  of poverty, disease, pain, and suffering by providing food, clothing,  medicine, medical treatment, shelter, or psychological counseling  directly to indigent or similarly deserving members of society with  its funds derived primarily from sources other than fees or charges  for its services. If the organization engages in any substantial activity  other than the activities described in this section, it cannot qualify  for exemption under this provision because it is not organized for  purely public charity. However, if the organization is engaged in  activities, other than those described in this section, and the additional  activities are incidental to and in support of the activities conducted  by the organization that are described in this section, the organization  may be considered for this exemption. No part of the net earnings  of the organization may inure to the benefit of any private party  or individual other than as reasonable compensation for services rendered  to the organization. Some examples of organizations that do not meet  the definition of a charitable organization, even if they are nonprofit  organizations that perform services that are often charitable in nature,  are as follows: fraternal organizations, lodges, fraternities, sororities,  service clubs, veterans groups, mutual benefit or social groups, professional  groups, trade or business groups, trade associations, medical associations,  chambers of commerce, and similar organizations. Although these organizations  do not qualify for exemption as charitable organizations, they may  qualify for the exemption under Tax Code, §151.310(a)(2), if  they obtain an exemption from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) under  Internal Revenue Code (IRC), §501(c). Chambers of Commerce may  qualify for exemption under paragraph (6) of this subsection; (2) a nonprofit educational organization or governmental  entity whose activities are devoted solely to systematic instruction,  particularly in the commonly accepted arts, sciences, and vocations,  and has a regularly scheduled curriculum that uses the commonly accepted  methods of teaching, a faculty of qualified instructors, and an enrolled  student body or students in attendance at a place where the educational  activities are regularly conducted. An organization that has activities  that solely consist of presentation of discussion groups, forums,  panels, lectures, or other similar programs, may qualify for the exemption  under this provision, if the presentations provide instruction in  the commonly accepted arts, sciences, and vocations. An organization  cannot qualify for exemption under this provision if the systematic  instruction or educational classes are incidental to some other facet  of the organization\'s activities. No part of the net earnings of the  organization may inure to the benefit of any private party or individual  other than as reasonable compensation for services rendered to the  organization. Some examples of organizations that do not meet the  requirements for exemption under this definition are professional  associations, business leagues, information resource groups, research  organizations, support groups, home schools, and organizations that  merely disseminate information by distributing printed publications.  Although these organizations do not qualify for exemption as educational  organizations, they may qualify for the exemption under Tax Code, §151.310(a)(2),  if they obtain an exemption from the IRS under IRC, §501(c); (3) a nonprofit religious organization that is an organized  group of people who regularly meet for the primary purpose of holding,  conducting, and sponsoring religious worship services according to  the rites of their sect. The organization must be able to provide  evidence of an established congregation that shows regular attendance  of these services by an organized group of people. An organization  that supports or encourages religion as an incidental part of its  overall purpose, or one whose general purpose is to further religious  work or instill its membership with a religious understanding, cannot  qualify for exemption under this provision. No part of the net earnings  of the organization may inure to the benefit of any private party  or individual other than as reasonable compensation for services rendered  to the organization. Some examples of organizations that do not meet  the requirements for exemption under this definition are conventions  or associations of churches, evangelistic associations, churches with  membership consisting of family members only, missionary organizations,  and groups that organize for the purpose of holding prayer meetings,  Bible study, or revivals. Although these organizations do not qualify  for exemption as religious organizations, they may qualify for the  exemption under Tax Code, §151.310(a)(2), if they obtain an exemption  from the IRS under IRC, §501(c); (4) a youth athletic organization that is a nonprofit  corporation or association that exclusively provides athletic competition  among persons under 19 years of age; (5) a nonprofit organization that applies for and obtains  a determination letter or a group exemption ruling letter from the  IRS that states that the organization qualifies for exemption from  federal income tax under IRC, §501(c)(3), (4), (8), (10), or  (19); (6) a nonprofit chamber of commerce that represents  at least one Texas city, county, or geographic locality. For the purpose  of this section, a chamber of commerce is a perpetual organization  devoted exclusively to promoting the general economic interest of  all commercial enterprises in the city, county, or areas it represents.  The term does not include chamber-like organizations such as trade  associations or business leagues that serve a single line or closely  related lines of business within a single industry; (7) a nonprofit convention and tourist promotional  agency organized or sponsored by at least one Texas city or county; (8) an electric cooperative formed under the Electric  Cooperative Corporation Act (Utilities Code, Chapter 161) and nonprofit  electric cooperatives located outside the state; (9) a telephone cooperative formed under the Telephone  Cooperative Act (Utilities Code, Chapter 162) and nonprofit telephone  cooperatives located outside the state; (10) a local organizing committee, as defined in Texas  Civil Statutes, Article 5190.14, §1(7), that is exempt from federal  income tax under IRC, §501(c). The local organizing committee  must be authorized by an endorsing municipality, an endorsing county,  or more than one endorsing municipality or county acting collectively  to pursue an application and submit a bid on the municipality\'s or  county\'s behalf to a site selection organization for selection as  the host site of one or more games or events, as defined in Texas  Civil Statutes, Article 5190.14, §§5A, 5B, or 5C; (11) any company, department, or association organized  for the purpose of answering fire alarms and extinguishing fires or  for the purpose of answering fire alarms, extinguishing fires, and  providing emergency medical services, the members of which receive  nominal or no compensation for their services; and (12) nonprofit corporations formed under Local Government  Code, Chapter 501 (Development Corporation Act of 1979) or Health  and Safety Code, Chapter 221 (Health Facilities Development Act of  1981) when they purchase items for their exclusive use and benefit.  The exemption does not apply to items purchased by the corporation  to be lent, sold, leased, or rented. (c) Entities that are always exempt. Certain entities  and organizations are exempt under the law and are not required to  request and prove exempt status, except to send information as requested  by the comptroller to verify its exempt status under this subsection. (1) The United States, its unincorporated agencies  and instrumentalities. The United States includes all parts of the  executive, legislative, and judicial branches and all independent  boards, commissions, and agencies of the United States government.  Instrumentalities and agencies of the United States include: (A) various military entities under the supervision  of a base commander; (B) organizations that contract with the United States  and whose contracts explicitly and unequivocally state that they are  agents of the United States; (C) organizations wholly owned by the United States  or wholly owned by an organization that is itself wholly owned by  the United States; (D) organizations specifically named as agents of the  United States or exempted as instrumentalities of the United States  by federal statutes; and (E) organizations having substantially all of the following  characteristics: (i) they are funded by the United States; (ii) they carry out a specific program of the United  States; (iii) they are managed or controlled by officers of  the United States; (iv) their officers are appointed by the United States; (v) they perform commitments of the United States under  an international treaty; and (vi) they are not organized for private profit; (2) any incorporated agency or instrumentality of the  United States wholly owned by the United States or by a corporation  wholly owned by the United States. ""Wholly owned"" means total or 100%  ownership; (3) federal credit unions organized under 12 United  States Code, §1768; (4) the State of Texas, its unincorporated agencies  and instrumentalities; and (5) any county, city, special district or other political  subdivision of the State of Texas, and any college or university created  or authorized by the State of Texas. (d) Qualification requirements. To qualify for exempt  status under subsection (b) of this section, an organization must  satisfy all of the following requirements. (1) An organization must be organized or formed solely  to conduct one or more exempt activities. The comptroller will consider  all documents necessary to prove the purpose for which an organization  is formed. (2) An organization must devote its operations exclusively  to one or more exempt activities. (3) An organization must dedicate its assets in perpetuity  to one or more exempt activities. (4) No profit or gain may pass directly or indirectly  to any private shareholder or individual. All salaries or other benefits  furnished officers and employees must be commensurate with the services  actually rendered. (e) How to obtain exempt status. (1) Application. To apply for and obtain notification  of exemption from the comptroller, an organization must complete and  submit to the comptroller the appropriate application or its equivalent.  Applicants should refer to the Guidelines to Texas Tax Exemptions  (publication 96-1045) for assistance in completing the proper application  for any exemption sought. (2) Documentation required. In addition to a properly  completed application, an organization must submit with the application  all documents requested by the application and comptroller publication  96-1045, Guidelines to Texas Tax Exemptions, all governing documents  as indicated by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, and all IRS documents  indicated by subparagraph (B) of this paragraph. (A) Governing documents. A copy of each of the organization\'s  governing documents must be submitted with the application as indicated  in clauses (i) - (iii) of this subparagraph. (i) An unincorporated organization requesting an exemption  must include copies of its formation documents, such as bylaws, constitution,  articles of association, certificate of formation, or applicable trust  agreement, and any related amendments. If the exemption being sought  requires that the organization be a nonprofit, the governing documents  must state that the organization is a nonprofit. (ii) A non-Texas corporation requesting an exemption  must include file-stamped copies of its formation documents and certificate  of existence from the home state of incorporation, and any related  amendments. (iii) A non-Texas limited liability company requesting  an exemption must include file-stamped copies of its formation documents  and certificate of existence from the home state of formation, and  any related amendments. (iv) Exception. An organization applying for exemption  based on its federal exempt status under IRC, §501(c)(3), (4),  (8), (10), or (19), is not required to submit file-stamped copies  of its governing documents and certificate of existence unless it  is a corporation or limited liability company chartered outside the  state of Texas. Cont\'d...', ""(B) IRS documents. If an organization is applying for  exemption based on its federal exempt status under IRC, §501(c)(3),  (4), (8), (10), or (19), the organization must provide copies of all  pages of its IRS determination letter or group exemption ruling letter  and include any caveat or addendum that applies. If the original determination  letter or group exemption ruling letter is more than four years old,  the organization must also include a copy of a recent letter from  the IRS to confirm the exemption is still valid. A nonprofit organization  that claims exemption under a parent's exemption must provide a copy  of the parent organization's IRS group exemption ruling letter and  a letter from the parent organization that states the applicant nonprofit  organization is a subordinate covered by the parent organization's  group exemption. (3) The comptroller may require an organization to  furnish additional information to further clarify the organization's  overall purpose and activities to establish the claimed exemption.  For example, the comptroller may request a written statement that  details the nature of the activities conducted, or to be conducted,  financial information, and documentation that shows all services the  organization performs. (4) After a review of the material, the comptroller  will inform an organization in writing if it qualifies for exemption. (5) The comptroller or an authorized representative  of the comptroller may audit the records of an organization at any  time during regular business hours to verify the validity of the organization's  exempt status. (f) Revocations, withdrawals, or loss of exemptions. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection,  if at any time the comptroller has reason to believe that an exempt  organization no longer qualifies for exemption, a comptroller's representative  will notify the organization that its exempt status is under review.  A comptroller's representative may request additional information  that is necessary to ascertain the continued validity of the organization's  exempt status. An organization must immediately notify the comptroller  in writing of a revocation, withdrawal, or loss of exemption when  the organization no longer qualifies for exemption. If the comptroller  determines that an organization is no longer entitled to its exemption,  then the comptroller will notify the organization. The date of the  notification letter is the effective date of the revocation. All subsequent  purchases by the organization are subject to tax. (2) For nonprofit organizations that are granted an  exemption under Tax Code, §151.310(a)(2), the revocation, withdrawal,  or loss of the federal income tax exemption automatically terminates  the sales tax exemption, effective on the date on which the IRS serves  formal written notice of the revocation on the nonprofit organization  or the date on which the IRS notifies the comptroller, whichever is  earlier. All subsequent purchases by the organization are subject  to tax. (A) The effective date of a revocation for a nonprofit  organization that was granted an exemption as a recognized subordinate  is the date on which the organization ceased to be recognized as a  subordinate under the federal group exemption. All subsequent purchases  by the organization are subject to tax. (B) The organization must notify the comptroller in  writing of the revocation, withdrawal, or loss of exemption immediately  upon receiving notice from the IRS of such revocation, withdrawal,  or loss. (C) Under a federal/state exchange agreement, the IRS  may notify the comptroller when an organization no longer qualifies  for federal exemption. (3) An organization that loses its exempt status must  immediately notify its suppliers that its purchases are subject to  tax. Failure to so notify a supplier is a violation of the sales tax  law. (4) After revocation, the organization may re-apply  for exempt status under other provisions of this section. (g) Purchases by an exempt organization; refund claims;  and credits. See §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption  Certificates). (1) The purchase, lease, or rental of a taxable item  that relates to the purpose of an exempt organization listed in subsection  (b)(1), (2), (3), (5), (10), (11) or (12) of this section is exempt  from tax when the organization or an authorized agent of the organization  pays for the item and provides the vendor with an exemption certificate  in the form prescribed by the comptroller. (2) The purchase, lease, or rental of a taxable item  to an exempt organization listed in subsections (c) and (b)(4), (6),  (7), (8), or (9) of this section is exempt from tax when the organization  or an authorized agent pays for the taxable item and provides the  vendor with an exemption certificate in the form prescribed by the  comptroller. (3) A purchase voucher issued by any one of the entities  identified in subsection (c) of this section is sufficient proof of  the entity's exempt status. (4) An exemption certificate must be given to a vendor  when an authorized agent makes a cash purchase of merchandise for  an exempt organization. (5) An employee of an exempt organization cannot claim  an exemption from tax when the employee purchases taxable items of  a personal nature even though the employee receives an allowance or  reimbursement from the organization. (6) A person who travels on official business for an  exempt organization must pay sales tax on taxable purchases whether  reimbursed on a per diem basis or reimbursed for actual expenses incurred. (7) Bingo equipment as defined by Occupations Code, §2001.002,  including machinery or devices used to select or hold letters or numbers,  electronic or mechanical cardminding devices, pull-tab dispensers,  bingo cards, balls, and other devices commonly used in the direct  operation of a bingo game, are exempt from sales and use taxes when  purchased, leased, or rented by an organization exempt under IRC, §501(c)(3),  (4), (8), (10), or (19), and exclusively used to conduct bingo games  authorized under Occupations Code, Chapter 2001. Commonly available  component parts of bingo equipment such as batteries, light bulbs,  and fuses do not qualify for this exemption. (8) Refund claims and credits by organizations exempted  under Tax Code, §151.310. (A) Qualifying organizations. The following organizations  are covered by the provisions of Tax Code, §151.310 and are subject  to the provisions of this paragraph: (i) organizations created for religious, educational,  or charitable purposes; (ii) organizations qualifying for an exemption from  federal income taxes under IRC, §501(c)(3), (4), (8), (10), or  (19); (iii) nonprofit organizations engaged exclusively in  providing athletic competition among persons under 19 years old; (iv) volunteer fire departments; and (v) chambers of commerce or convention and tourist  promotional agencies representing at least one Texas city or county. (B) Exemption effective dates. (i) Organizations identified in subparagraph (A) of  this paragraph are not considered exempted from sales and use taxes  before the earlier of: (I) the date the organization applied for exemption  with the comptroller as evidenced by the postmark date on the organization's  qualifying application for exemption as required under subsection  (e) of this section; or (II) the date of assessment of the organization's tax  liability by the comptroller as a result of an audit. (ii) With the exception of entities that qualify for  exemption under subsection (c) of this section, organizations' exemption  effective dates can be verified by using the comptroller's Texas Tax-Exempt  Entity Search located on the agency's Web site. (C) Refund claims by organizations with exemption effective  dates prior to September 1, 2009. Organizations identified in subparagraph  (A) of this paragraph with an exemption effective date prior to September  1, 2009 may request a refund or credit for sales and use taxes paid  in error, retroactive to the effective date of the organization's  exemption or the four-year statute of limitations, whichever date  is more recent. (D) Refund claims by organizations with exemption effective  dates on or after September 1, 2009. Organizations identified in subparagraph  (A) of this paragraph with an exemption effective date on or after  September 1, 2009 are not eligible to request a refund or credit for  sales or use tax paid between September 1, 2009 and the exemption  effective date. If the comptroller has determined the organization  with an exemption effective date on or after September 1, 2009, has  met the requirements for exemption from the sales tax under Tax Code, §151.310  for a period prior to September 1, 2009, the organization may request  a refund or credit for sales and use taxes paid in error on purchases  made between the earliest date the comptroller determined the organization  met the requirements for the exemption or the four-year statute of  limitations, whichever is more recent, and August 31, 2009. (E) See §3.325 of this title (relating to Refunds  and Payments Under Protest) for more information about how to claim  a refund and §3.339 of this title (relating to Statute of Limitations). (h) Sales by an exempt organization. (1) An exempt organization that sells taxable items  must obtain a sales tax permit and is responsible for collection and  remittance of tax on all sales of taxable items that the organization  makes, unless otherwise provided by this subsection or unless such  sales are otherwise exempt from the tax. See §3.293 of this title  (relating to Food; Food Products; Meals; Food Service), §3.299  of this title (relating to Newspapers, Magazines, Publishers, Exempt  Writings), and §3.298 of this title (relating to Amusement Services). (2) A religious, educational, charitable, or eleemosynary  organization, or an organization exempt under IRC, §501(c)(3),  (4), (8), (10), or (19), and each of its bona fide chapters, may have  two one-day tax-free sales or auctions each calendar year. During  a tax-free sale or auction lasting only one day, the organization  is not required to collect sales tax on the sales price of taxable  items sold for $5,000 or less. Additionally, a taxable item may be  sold tax-free during a one-day tax-free sale or auction regardless  of price if the item is manufactured by the organization or is donated  to the organization and is not sold to the donor. (A) One day is a consecutive 24-hour period. If a designated  tax-free sale or auction exceeds a consecutive 24-hour period, the  organization or chapter may not hold another tax-free sale or auction  during that calendar year. An organization or chapter may hold the  two tax-free sales or auctions consecutively, but the two tax-free  sales or auctions by that organization or chapter cannot exceed a  maximum of 48 consecutive hours in a calendar year. (B) The organization may employ an auctioneer to conduct  the sale or auction and pay the auctioneer a reasonable fee not to  exceed 20% of the gross receipts. (C) If two or more exempt organizations or chapters  jointly hold a tax-free sale or auction, each is considered to have  held a tax-free sale or auction during that calendar year. Each exempt  organization that participates in a joint tax-free sale or auction  may hold one additional tax-free sale or auction during that calendar  year. (D) An organization described by subsection (b)(11)  of this section and which is granted an exemption may hold 10 tax-free  sales or auctions during a calendar year.  (i) Each tax-free sale or auction may continue for  not more than 72 hours.  (ii) The storage, use, or consumption of a taxable  item that is acquired from a qualified organization at a tax-free  sale or auction and that is exempted from the sales tax under this  paragraph is exempted from the use tax until the item is resold or  subsequently transferred.  (iii) If an organization described by subsection (b)(11)  of this section and which is granted an exemption jointly holds a  tax-free sale or auction with one or more other exempt organizations,  the tax-free sale or auction is considered to be one of the organization's  10 tax-free sales or auctions during that calendar year.  (3) Fundraisers. Exempt entities engaged in fundraising  activities in conjunction with for-profit entities are not the sellers  of any taxable items and do not need to be permitted to collect and  remit tax on such sales. See §3.286 of this title (relating to  Seller's and Purchaser's Responsibilities, including Nexus, Permits,  Returns and Reporting Periods, and Collection and Exemption Rules).  (4) Sales by agencies and instrumentalities of the  federal government are subject to tax, and the agencies and instrumentalities  must collect and remit tax unless the collection of tax is specifically  prohibited by federal law. If the collection is prohibited by specific  federal law, the purchaser of the taxable item shall be liable for  reporting and paying the tax directly to the state. (5) Sales of governmental publications, records, or  documents. "", ""(A) When a governmental body is required to furnish  a copy of any document under the Open Records Act, the transaction  is not considered the sale of a taxable item. Sales tax is not due  on any fee charged by the governmental body for furnishing one or  more copies, regardless of whether the copies are certified or the  fee is established by statute, ordinance, public official, or state  agency. (B) Sales tax is not due on the fee charged by a governmental  body for furnishing a copy or copies of a document not open to public  inspection to a person who is authorized to obtain a copy or copies  of such document. For example, sales tax is not due on the fee charged  by a college for furnishing a student's academic transcript to the  student or on the fee charged by the Department of State Health Services  for furnishing a person a copy of the person's birth certificate. (C) Unless such sales are otherwise exempt, sales tax  is due on sales of regular publications, records, or general information  by a governmental body, even though such publications, records, or  information may be open or available to the public by statute. For  example, textbooks sold by a state university and magazine subscriptions  sold by a state agency are taxable. See §3.299 of this title. (D) Sales tax collected by state agencies must be remitted  in accordance with comptroller accounting requirements. (i) Organizations that do not qualify for exempt status.  Examples of organizations that cannot qualify for exempt status include  professional groups, certain mutual benefit or social groups, and  political, trade, business, bar, or medical associations. However,  certain sales by certain organizations may be exempt. For information  on exempt sales by senior citizens' organizations, student organizations  affiliated with a college or university, or nonprofit animal shelters,  see §3.316 of this title (relating to Occasional Sales; Joint  Ownership Transfers; Sales by Senior Citizens' Organizations; Sales  by University and College Student Organizations; and Sales by Nonprofit  Animal Shelters). (j) Diplomatic tax exemptions. (1) Sales tax exemptions provided to foreign diplomatic  and consular personnel in the United States are governed by international  and federal law as administered by the United States Department of  State's Office of Foreign Missions. (2) Types of exemption cards. (A) Mission tax exemption cards. Mission tax exemption  cards can only be used for official purchases by a foreign consulate  or embassy. All purchases must be made in the name of the mission  and paid for by a mission check or credit card, not by cash or personal  check. The person whose name and photo appear on the card is responsible  for ensuring the accuracy of the exemption, but does not need to be  present when purchases are made in the name of the mission. (B) Personal tax exemption cards. Only the person whose  photo appears on the front side of the card is permitted to use it  to purchase the exempted items that are identified on the card. Personal  tax exemption cards are not transferable and may not be used by others. (3) Procedures for retailers. (A) Diplomatic tax exemption cards must be presented  to the seller at the time of sale for the exemption to apply. If the  exemption is not claimed at the time of sale, the comptroller will  not refund tax paid on an item which qualifies for a diplomatic tax  exemption. The card must be signed. (B) To document the sale of an item subject to a diplomatic  tax exemption, a retailer should retain a copy of the sales invoice  or contract that bears the identification number appearing on the  diplomatic tax exemption card or should make a photocopy of the front  and back of the card. (C) Certain diplomatic exemption cards are limited  to what and how much may be purchased tax free or may require a minimum  purchase before the exemption can be claimed. This information is  contained on the diplomatic exemption card itself. Retailers who make  sales to persons with cards that require purchases to exceed a certain  dollar limit should include only those taxable items that are purchased  in the same transaction to determine if the appropriate level has  been reached. Purchases made in separate transactions may not be added  together to reach minimum exemption levels. Neither type of card identified  in paragraph (2) of this subsection can be used to obtain the tax  free sale of utilities. (k) The Alabama-Coushatta, Kickapoo, and Tigua Native  American tribes. (1) The purchase, lease, or rental of a taxable item  to a tribal council or a business owned by a tribal council of these  Native American tribes is exempt from sales tax. An exemption certificate  or purchase order from the tribal council is sufficient proof of the  exempt sale. (2) Sales made by a tribal council or a business owned  by a tribal council of these Native American tribes within the boundaries  of the reservation are exempt from sales tax if: (A) the taxable item being sold is made by a member  of the tribe; and (B) the taxable item is a cultural artifact of the  tribe. (3) Sales made off the reservation or sales made on  the reservation of items that are not cultural artifacts are taxable. (l) Bordering states and governmental units of states  that border Texas. (1) The State of Arkansas, State of Louisiana, State  of New Mexico, and State of Oklahoma, or a governmental unit of any  of those bordering states may qualify for exemption on the purchase,  lease, or rental of taxable items, but only to the extent that the  bordering state or governmental unit of the bordering state exempts  or does not impose a tax on similar sales of items to the State of  Texas or a political subdivision of the State of Texas. (2) A bordering state or a governmental unit of a bordering  state may enter into a reciprocal agreement with the comptroller for  the exemption of taxable items purchased, leased, or rented to the  State of Texas or a political subdivision of the State of Texas. (3) The purchase, lease, or rental of a taxable item  to a bordering state or a governmental unit of a bordering state is  exempt from sales tax to the extent allowed under the terms of the  reciprocal agreement. An exemption certificate from a qualifying bordering  state or a governmental unit of a bordering state is sufficient proof  of the exempt sale."
42|§3.323|Imports and Exports|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=323|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Air forwarder--A licensed International Air Transportation Association freight forwarder. (2) Consignee--The person named in a bill of lading to whom or to whose order the bill promises delivery. (3) Consignor--The person named in a bill of lading as the person from whom the goods have been received for shipment. (4) Licensed and certificated carrier--A person authorized by the appropriate United States agency or by the appropriate state agency within the United States to operate an aircraft, vessel, train, motor vehicle, or pipeline as a common or contract carrier. Certificates of inspection or airworthiness certificates are not the appropriate documents for authorizing a person to operate as a common or contract carrier. These documents relate to the carrier device itself rather than a person's right to operate a carrier business. (5) Licensed customs broker--A person who is licensed by the United States Customs Service to act as a custom house broker and who holds a Texas Customs Broker's License issued by the comptroller as provided in §3.360 of this title (relating to Customs Brokers). (6) Ocean forwarder--A licensed Federal Maritime Commission freight forwarder. (b) United States Constitution. On the basis of the import and export clause of the United States Constitution, Article 1, §10, clause 2, tangible personal property imported into or exported from Texas is exempt from taxation by the Tax Code, §151.307 and §151.330, so long as the property retains its character as an import or export. (c) Exports. (1) When an exemption is claimed because tangible personal property is exported beyond the territorial limits of the United States, proof of export may be shown only by: (A) a copy of a bill of lading issued by a licensed and certificated carrier of persons or property that shows the seller as consignor, the buyer as consignee, and a delivery point outside the territorial limits of the United States; (B) documentation that is valid under §3.360 of this title (relating to Customs Brokers) provided by a licensed customs broker certifying that the property will be exported to a point outside the territorial limits of the United States; (C) formal entry documents from the country of destination showing that the property was imported into a country other than the United States. For the country of Mexico, the formal entry document would be the pedimento de importaciones document with a computerized, certified number issued by Mexican customs officials, or an alternative type of formal entry document also used by Mexican customs officials, such as the boleta; (D) a copy of the original airway, ocean, or railroad bill of lading issued by a licensed and certificated carrier that describes the property being exported and a copy of the air forwarder's, ocean forwarder's, or rail freight forwarder's receipt if an air, ocean, or rail freight forwarder takes possession of the property in Texas; or (E) a maquiladora exemption certificate issued by an organization of the type defined in §3.358 of this title (relating to Maquiladoras). The maquiladora must also provide a copy of its maquiladora export permit issued by the comptroller. (2) The retailer is responsible for obtaining proof of exportation. Only one type of proof relating to a particular piece of property is necessary. For example, a furniture store sells a table and collects sales tax. The purchaser returns to the store a week later with a valid pedimento de importaciones showing that the table was imported into Mexico. The retailer may accept the pedimento, alone, as proof of export and refund the tax. It is not necessary for the retailer to also obtain an export certification form issued by a licensed customs broker. Except as provided in §3.358 of this title (relating to Maquiladoras), exemption certificates, affidavits, or statements from the purchaser that the property will be or has been exported are not sufficient to exempt the sale as an export. The certification form provided by a licensed Texas customs broker as provided in §3.360 of this title (relating to Customs Brokers), is acceptable as proof of export. A passport number taken by a seller from a passport issued by a foreign country is not acceptable as proof of export. For information concerning resale certificates given by Mexican retailers, see §3.285 of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale). (3) Storing property in Texas by the owner prior to exportation is a use of that property in Texas. Property stored or otherwise used or consumed in Texas by the owner loses its exemption as an export. For example, clothing or jewelry actually worn by the purchaser in Texas is used in Texas; automotive parts (not including electronic audio equipment) installed on the purchaser's motor vehicle in Texas are used in Texas if the vehicle is subsequently driven in Texas; and food ready for immediate consumption that is purchased in Texas is presumed to be used in Texas. By law, electronic audio equipment retains the exemption even if installed in a motor vehicle that is driven in Texas prior to export. Sufficient time will be allowed to arrange for shipping. Property in Texas longer than 30 days from date of purchase will be presumed to have been stored. Any use of the property in Texas by the owner prior to export also causes the loss of the export exemption. Property in the hands of a freight forwarder is not covered by this provision. (4) The sale of property to military personnel is taxable unless proof of export is maintained as outlined in paragraph (1) of this subsection. (5) If a seller delivers property to a purchaser in Texas, the seller must collect tax at the time of sale unless the sale is exempt for a reason other than export and the seller accepts a properly completed resale or exemption certificate. Tax may not be refunded until the property has actually been exported from the territorial limits of the United States and the seller has received valid proof of export as described in this subsection. There is a rebuttable presumption that an export certification form issued by a licensed customs broker who complies with §3.360 of this title (relating to Customs Brokers) is valid. Tax not collected will be assessed against the seller. This paragraph does not apply when proof of export is provided to the seller at the time of sale by a maquiladora according to the terms of paragraph (1)(E) of this subsection. (d) Imports. Property imported into Texas from another country is exempt from Texas use tax as long as the property retains its character as an import. When transit ceases in Texas, the import becomes subject to the Texas use tax. (e) Refunds. (1) A retailer who collects sales tax on tangible personal property that qualifies for exemption under subsection (b) of this section may refund the tax to the original purchaser or the original purchaser's assignee upon receipt of export documentation as required by subsection (c) of this section. (2) A retailer who receives documentation that is valid under subsection (c)(1)(B) of this section, must report the total amount of sales tax refunded as provided in subsection (g) of this section, may not refund the tax paid under this chapter on that purchase before: (A) the 24th hour after the hour stated as the time of export on the documentation, if the retailer is located in a county that borders the United Mexican States; or (B) the seventh day after the day stated as the date of export on the documentation, if the retailer is located in a county that does not border the United Mexican States. (3) The refund may be made by certified check, company check, money order, credit memo, or cash. If the refund is made in cash, the retailer must receive at the time the refund is made a receipt showing a description of the property purchased, the amount and date of the refund, and the name, address, and signature of the purchaser and, if applicable, the purchaser's assignee. A retailer who issues a tax refund to the purchaser's assignee must also receive a copy of the purchaser's written assignment of the right to a refund. A retailer who makes a refund before the time prescribed by subsection (e)(2)(A) or (B) of this section or makes a refund that is undocumented or improperly documented is liable for the tax refunded plus interest. (4) A copy of the certified check, company check, money order, credit memo, or signed cash receipt and a copy of the written assignment of the purchaser's right to a refund, if applicable, must be attached to the original export documents and maintained in the seller's files. (5) In an audit, the auditor must be able to tie the export documents to the original taxable transaction. The seller must retain the original invoice of the sale. Cash register receipts and other records of the original taxable transaction that do not include a detailed, specific description of the items purchased are not sufficient to tie the export documents to the original taxable transaction. Refunds made pursuant to undocumented or improperly documented export exemptions will be assessed against the seller. (f) Records. Please refer to §3.281 of this title (relating to Records Required; Information Required), §3.282 of this title (relating to Auditing Taxpayer Records), and §3.360 of this title (relating to Customs Brokers). (g) Reports. Retailers are required to report the total amount of sales tax refunded for items exported beyond the territorial limits of the United States based on licensed customs broker certifications on a supplemental sales tax report prescribed by the comptroller at the same time and for the same reporting period as the retailer's state sales and use tax return.
43|§3.324|Oil, Gas, and Related Well Service|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=324|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Oil, gas, and related well service--An activity  performed for others for a consideration or compensation at any well  site including an oil, gas, water disposal, or injection well.  (2) Taxable services--The total charge to repair, restore,  remodel, or maintain tangible personal property or to repair, remodel,  or restore improvements to real property at a lease site. Taxable  services also include, but are not limited to, real property services  such as surveying and structural pest control at the lease site.  (3) Nontaxable services--The labor to start or stimulate  production or the labor to work on the formation outside the well.  Pumping the product is not considered to be stimulating production.  (b) Responsibilities of those providing a nontaxable  well service.  (1) The labor to perform those services subject to  the 2.42% oil well service tax imposed under Tax Code, Chapter 191,  is not taxable under Tax Code, Chapter 151.  (2) Work performed inside the wellbore for the purpose  of starting initial production or increasing production by working  on the formation is not taxable. The following activities are not  taxable.  (A) Fracturing (frac job)--Work done on a well using  high pressure pumps to stimulate production by increasing the permeability  of the producing formation. Under extremely high hydraulic pressure  a fluid (water, oil, alcohol, hydrochloric acid, liquefied petroleum  gas, foam) is pumped down through the tubing and forced into perforations  in the casing. The fluid enters the producing formation and parts  or fractures it. Sand, aluminum pellets, glass beads, or similar materials  are carried in suspension into the fractures. These are propping agents.  When pressure is released at the surface the frac fluid returns to  the wellbore and the fractures partially close on the proppants leaving  channels for oil or gas to flow through to the wellbore. The well  is then ready to complete or put back on production. (See Tax Code,  Chapter 191, relating to the 2.42% well servicing tax.)  (B) Perforating--A special service done by lowering  into the well a perforating gun that fires electrically detonated  bullets or shaped charges. The gun is controlled from the surface.  The casing and cement wall are pierced to provide holes through which  the contents of the formation may enter.  (C) Squeeze cement--Cementing trucks with high pressure  pumps force cement slurry to a specified point in the well to cause  seals at the points of squeeze. It is a secondary cementing method  that is used to isolate a producing formation or seal off water. (See  subsection (d)(5) of this section for the tax responsibilities to  repair the casing string.)  (D) Workover--To perform one or more remedial operations  when the formation has declined in production or ceased to produce,  with the hope of restoring or increasing production. Workover operations  can include deepening or plugging back.  (E) Acidizing--The treatment of formations by chemical  reaction with acid in order to increase production. Hydrochloric or  other acid is pumped into the formation under pressure causing the  pore space and permeability to increase. The acid may be held under  pressure for a period of time before the well is put back on production.  Chemical inhibitors are combined with the acid to prevent corrosion  of the pipe. (See Tax Code, Chapter 191, relating to 2.42% well servicing  tax.)  (F) Logging--A device which is run into the well to  record certain electrical or radioactive characteristics of the formations.  The purpose of the well log is to locate, identify, and evaluate the  various formations present. (See Tax Code, Chapter 191, relating to  2.42% well servicing tax.)  (G) Drilling deeper--A workover operation where the  well is deepened in either the existing or another producing formation.  (H) Plug back--A workover operation placing cement  in the bottom of a well for the purpose of excluding bottom water,  sidetracking or producing from a formation already drilled through.  A mechanical plug can be set by wireline, tubing, or drill pipe.  (I) Completion--The act of bringing a well to productive  status. Numerous services are used to complete a well, including running  casing, cementing, logging, perforating, fracturing, acidizing, swabbing,  and other special services depending on characteristics of the formation.  (J) Plug and abandon--To set cement plugs into a well  preparatory to abandonment.  (K) Pulling or resetting casing liner--A liner is any  string of casing whose top is located below the surface. Liners are  set for the purpose of admitting production to the bottom of the well.  Pulling or resetting a liner involves moving this casing up or down  the hole or pulling it out of the well.  (L) Installing a casing liner--This service is similar  to that described in subparagraph (K) of this paragraph except that  it involves the initial installation of the casing to the desired  depth for producing the well.  (M) Drilling out a plug--The removal by drilling of  the cement set as a plug in the wellbore.  (N) Putting on artificial lift (new installation)--If  a well will not produce by natural energy, a method is used to lift  the oil to the surface. Artificial lift systems include rod pumping,  gas lifting, hydraulic pumping, and centrifugal pumping.  (O) Running a bottom hole bomb--The pressure in a well  at a point opposite the producing formation is recorded by a bottom  hole pressure bomb, a steel container that houses a precision pressure  gauge. The bomb is lowered on a wireline.  (P) Swabbing--Operating a rubber faced cylinder up  and down on a wireline to bring fluids to the surface when the well  will not flow naturally. In the event an oil well does not flow after  being swabbed it is necessary then to install artificial lift equipment.  (Q) Jetting--Introduction of nitrogen or other inert  gases into the wellbore to enhance production or recovery. The gases  have no beneficial effect on downhole equipment.  (R) Gravel packing--The installation of a screen to  prevent the intrusion of formation sand into the wellbore.  (S) Hot oil treatment of formation--If a hot oil unit  is used for the purpose of treating the formation, it will be considered  a nontaxable service. The invoice must clearly identify the purpose  of the treatment or it will be considered to be a treatment on the  wellbore and taxable.  (3) The provider of a nontaxable service should pay  sales tax on any machinery or equipment purchased or rented to provide  the service and on any materials (except cement) used, consumed, or  expended in the well.  (4) The provider of a nontaxable service may not collect  sales tax from customers on any portion of the charge for service.  If the provider of the service wishes to be reimbursed for sales tax  paid on the purchase price of provided materials used, the tax must  be included in a single charge for materials. The tax may not be separately  stated.  (5) If the provider of a nontaxable service sells any  materials to a customer that were not used in the well servicing,  sales tax must be collected on the sales price. Any machinery or equipment  transferred to the customer will be taxable to the customer if sold  or rented without an operator. Those items listed on the well service  invoice as ""rentals"" which are so called merely because of the carry-over  of the term from past industry practice are not rentals as defined  in §3.294 of this title (relating to Rental and Lease of Tangible  Personal Property).  (6) Direct payment permit holders should not issue  direct payment exemption certificates to persons providing nontaxable  services.  (7) When a direct payment permit holder is doing business  with a person who may be selling taxable items as well as nontaxable  services, the direct payment exemption certificate must indicate that  it does not cover any nontaxable services that the servicer may provide.  The issuance of a specific direct payment exemption certificate will  be considered evidence of the direct payment permit holder\'s intent  to purchase any tangible personal property transferred by the service  provider rather than the purchase of a nontaxable service.  (c) Sale or rental versus service.  (1) If a company merely provides equipment and a supervisor,  the presumption will be that the company is not providing services  but selling or renting equipment. The charge for the supervisor\'s  time is part of the tax base as an expense connected with the sale  or rental. Mileage charges are also taxable. Equipment being incorporated  into the wellbore, i.e., hanger liners, packers, plugs, etc., may  be purchased tax free by issuing a resale certificate. The invoice  and/or back-up work tickets must clearly indicate what is occurring.  (2) A service company must pay tax on tools and equipment  used to provide a service. If a service company also rents the tools  to others, sales tax must be collected on the rental price. A service  company that issues a resale certificate for tools which it will rent  to others must keep those tools separate from those which it uses  to perform services.  (d) Responsibilities of those providing taxable services.  (1) Persons who provide taxable services must collect  sales tax from their customers on the total charge (materials and  labor) for the service. Charges for mileage, trip charges, standby  charges, etc., connected with taxable services will also be taxable.  The following activities by service companies are taxable.  (A) Pump change--Replacing bottom hole pump.  (B) Rod/tubing job--Pulling sucker rods and/or tubing  out of and running it back in the well. See subsection (e)(1) of this  section.  (C) Fishing for rods or tubing--When sucker rods break  or part, or tubing parts, a fishing tool is run to recover the parted  rods or tubing.  (D) Tubing leak--The small diameter pipe in a well  that serves as conduit for the oil and gas may become worn or develop  a leak. Tubing is pulled and tubing or collar replaced.  (E) Change packer or anchor--A packer is a device used  to block communication through the annular space between two strings  of pipe. Production packers may be retrievable or permanent. An anchor  is a device that secures or fastens downhole equipment. Rods and/or  tubing may be pulled to change a packer or anchor.  (F) Hot oil or water treatment of casing, tubing or  flow lines--The treatment of a producing well with heated oil or water  so as to melt accumulated paraffin in the annulus, tubing or surface  piping (flow line) through which the oil travels from the well to  storage. Special truck-mounted hot oil units heat the oil or water  and pump it down the well or through the flow lines.  (2) The provider of a taxable service should pay sales  tax on any machinery or equipment purchased or rented to provide the  service and on any materials (except cement) used or consumed in providing  the service which do not become a part of the items inside the wellbore.  (3) Those items of equipment which become a component  part of the items inside the wellbore are considered to be sold as  a part of the taxable service and may be purchased tax free by the  provider of the taxable service. The provider of the taxable service  will collect sales tax from the customer on the total charge (materials  and labor) for the taxable service.  (4) On occasion, down hole services described in this  subsection may be performed in order to facilitate a nontaxable service,  e.g., pull tubing to perform workover. This will render the taxable  service nontaxable. Any equipment incorporated into the well, in this  situation, will still be considered as sold to the operator; and the  operator will owe tax on the amount charged for the equipment.  (5) The labor to repair, remodel, or restore an item  of real property is a taxable service. Tax is due on the total amount  charged for the taxable service. The following activities are taxable.  (A) Squeeze cement--Cementing trucks with high pressure  pumps force cement slurry to a specified point in the well to cause  seals at the points of squeeze. It is a secondary cementing method  used to repair casing leaks or damage;  (B) Pulling or resetting casing liner--Pulling or resetting  a liner for the purpose of repairing the casing string.  (e) Work crews.  (1) The labor charge by persons who prepare a well  for servicing will be taxable or not taxable depending on what is  actually done by the provider of the service. For example, a crew  removing rods so that a pump may be repaired would be providing taxable  labor. A crew removing tubing so that a workover could be accomplished  would not be providing taxable labor.  (2) General maintenance around a well site may be either  maintenance on tangible personal property, a real property service  (§3.356 of this title (relating to Real Property Service)), or  a repair of an improvement to real property (§3.357 of this title  (relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling, and  Restoration; Real Property Maintenance)) depending on the service  provided. Examples of maintenance of tangible personal property include  service to tanks with a capacity of 500 barrels or less, flow lines,  whether above or below ground, pumps, and gauges. Examples of real  property services would include structural pest control by a licensed  exterminator. An example of a repair or restoration of real Cont\'d...', 'property  would be sandblasting and repainting 1000 barrel tanks. Examples of  nontaxable services performed at well sites include cutting weeds,  covering oil spills and mowing grass.  (3) All welding in the field will be presumed to be  taxable unless billings clearly indicate the labor was performed as  part of new construction as defined in §3.357 of this title or  third-party installation (initial only) of customer-owned equipment.  (f) Lost or damaged items.  (1) Any charges by the service company for items lost  or damaged beyond repair while providing the well service will not  be considered a sale of such items but a reimbursement of cost by  the customer. The transaction should not be labeled as a ""sale"" on  the invoice. The service company may be reimbursed for the sales or  use tax it paid by including the sales or use tax on the invoice to  the customer as a part of the charge for such item. The reimbursement  of sales or use tax may not be separately stated as tax.  (2) When a service company actually rents items to  a customer, their charges are taxable. This includes any charges for  damage waiver or repair to the items after their return.  (g) All process licenses are intangible items, and  the fees paid by the service company to the holder of the patents  are nontaxable where there is a service only.  (h) Chemicals, brine water, potassium chloride (KCL),  CO2--sales versus service.  (1) Because maintenance to tangible personal property  is taxable, the injection of maintenance-type chemicals such as corrosion  inhibitors, bactericides, etc., into the wellbore is considered a  taxable service. Since certain chemicals are oil soluble and remain  in the product flow after injection, the well operator may purchase  those chemicals separately from the service provider and issue a resale  certificate in lieu of tax on the charge for the chemicals. All charges  associated with the injection would be taxable including mileage,  standby, pump truck, and labor.  (2) The injection of chemicals to stimulate production  or remove impurities from the product being removed such as acid,  emulsifiers, or nitrogen is a nontaxable service. The service company  is the consumer of all chemicals pumped down hole and must pay tax  at the time of purchase.  (3) Excluding that which may be purchased to provide  nontaxable well services identified in subsection (b) of this section,  CO2 used to stimulate production may be purchased, exempt from tax,  by the well operator for injection provided the well operator issues  a properly completed exemption certificate in lieu of paying the tax.  (4) Kill charges will be taxable or nontaxable depending  on the overall purpose. All kill charges will be presumed taxable  until the contrary is established. The service company should bill  tax if it is not known at the time of billing what the overall purpose  was. The operator must then pay the tax or provide either a direct  payment exemption certificate or a statement that the purpose was  to facilitate a nontaxable service. The statement must be definite  in the purpose claimed. Statements such as ""to stimulate production""  are insufficient and will be disallowed.  (5) A service company will be considered to be providing  services if they do the actual injection into the well. Delivery into  a frac tank or other storage unit will be considered a sale of tangible  personal property. If it is unclear from the invoice, the presumption  will be that if a high pressure pump truck is used, a service has  occurred; if a vacuum truck is used to deliver the fluids or CO2,  then a sale of tangible personal property has occurred. The service  company may purchase all components of the fluids tax free when making  a sale or providing a taxable service."
44|§3.325|Refunds and Payments Under Protest|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=325|"(a) Requirements for refund claims. (1) Refund claims by non-permitted purchasers. A person  who does not have a sales and use tax permit and who has paid tax  in error to a permitted seller may request a refund only from the  permitted seller to whom the tax was paid. The permitted seller who  refunds tax to a purchaser may claim a refund as provided by paragraph  (2) of this subsection. A permitted seller may assign its right to  refund to the purchaser, who may then request a refund directly from  the comptroller as provided by paragraph (4) of this subsection. (2) Refund claims by permitted sellers and third party  assignees and successors. (A) With one exception relating to the return transactions,  no taxes, penalties, or interest will be refunded by the comptroller  to a permitted seller who has collected tax in error from a purchaser  until all such taxes are first refunded or credited with the purchaser's  written consent to the person from whom they were collected. If the  refund claim relates to a return of tangible personal property, a  permitted seller is entitled to claim a credit or request a refund  of sales tax equal to the amount of sales tax refunded to a purchaser  when the purchaser receives a full or partial refund of the sales  price of a taxable item that is returned to the seller. (B) Before a permitted seller refunds to a purchaser  tax collected in error on the sale of a taxable item, the permitted  seller must obtain from the purchaser a properly completed exemption  or resale certificate that meets all the requirements of §3.285  of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale) and  §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates). The  permitted seller must retain the certificate to document the basis  for the refund. (C) After the permitted seller has refunded or credited  the tax to the account of the purchaser, the permitted seller may  then seek reimbursement from the comptroller in accordance with the  procedures that are outlined in paragraph (4) of this subsection or  take a credit on a future sales and use tax return filed by the seller  in the amount refunded or credited to the account of the purchaser. (D) Refunds on exports. See §3.323 of this title  (relating to Imports and Exports) for information about amounts a  seller can refund on taxable items that are exported by a purchaser. (E) A permitted seller's right to a refund may be assigned  to a third party such as a creditor, settlement trustee, or successor  entity. The comptroller will grant or deny a refund claimed by a third  party assignee on the same basis as if it had been claimed by the  original seller. The third party assignee must comply with all requirements  of this section when filing any refund claim, including the requirement  to refund or credit tax paid in error to the purchaser in accordance  with subparagraph (C) of this paragraph. (3) Refund claims by permitted purchasers. (A) How to file a refund claim. A permitted purchaser  may amend a return for the period in which an overpayment was made,  file a refund claim with the comptroller according to the requirements  of paragraph (4) of this subsection, or take a credit on a future  sales and use tax return filed by the purchaser for taxes paid in  error to a permitted seller. The permitted purchaser must have been  permitted at the time the tax paid in error was due and payable in  order to claim a refund directly from the comptroller, amend a return  for the period in which an overpayment was made, or to take a credit  on a future sales and use tax return. If the permitted purchaser was  not permitted at the time the tax paid in error was due and payable,  the permitted purchaser must be assigned the right to refund by the  permitted seller and must file a refund claim with the comptroller  for the assigned taxes that meets the requirements in paragraph (4)  of this subsection. (B) Sample and projection method of calculating refund  claims. A permitted purchaser who paid tax in error to a permitted  seller may compute the amount of overpayment by use of a projection  based on a sampling of transactions and on a method that complies  with generally accepted sampling methods as approved by the comptroller.  The purchaser must have been permitted for the entire period included  in the projection. The method by which the projection and computation  were performed must be retained and be made available upon request  of the comptroller. (C) Credits. (i) Reports and documentation. A permitted purchaser  who paid tax in error to a permitted seller and who takes credits  on tax returns is required to report the total amount of tax credit  being taken and the earliest date of the tax paid in error on a supplemental  sales tax report prescribed by the comptroller. The permitted purchaser  must retain, for the period required in Tax Code, Chapter 111, all  documentation that is necessary to support the credit claimed. (ii) Credits allowed on certain purchases. See §3.338  of this title (relating to Multistate Tax Credits and Allowance of  Credit for Tax Paid to Suppliers) for additional rules about credits  that can be claimed by permitted purchasers. (4) A person who requests a refund from the comptroller  must: (A) submit a claim in writing that states fully and  in detail each reason or ground on which the claim is founded; (B) identify the period during which the claimed overpayment  was made; (C) include, at a minimum, each of the following about  each transaction upon which a refund is requested: (i) purchaser or seller's name, as appropriate; (ii) invoice number, if applicable; (iii) date of transaction; (iv) description of the item(s) purchased or sold; (v) specific reason for the refund, such as applicable  statutory authority; (vi) purchase or sale amount subject to refund; (vii) total amount of tax refund requested; (viii) identification of all local jurisdictions to  which tax was remitted; and (ix) if requesting a refund for taxes paid in error  to a permitted seller, the seller's name, address and sales tax permit  number or information that allows the comptroller to identify the  seller's sales tax permit number; (D) submit the claim within the applicable limitations  period as provided by subsection (b) of this section; and (E) submit supporting documentation to verify any refund  claimed or credit taken, such as copies of invoices, cancelled checks,  and executed contracts. If the supporting documentation cannot be  easily mailed or otherwise easily submitted to the agency, the refund  claim must include a statement that all supporting documentation necessary  to verify the claim will be made available to the comptroller upon  request. (b) Statute of limitations for refund claims. (1) Unless otherwise indicated by this section, a claim  for refund must be made within four years from the date on which the  tax was due and payable as provided by Tax Code, §151.401. (2) A claim for refund for tax paid pursuant to a deficiency  determination must be made by the later of: (A) four years from the date on which the tax was due  and payable; or (B) six months after the date on which the deficiency  determination for the periods becomes final, and is subject to the  restriction imposed by paragraph (3) of this subsection. (3) A refund claim filed within six months after the  date on which a deficiency determination becomes final is within the  limitations period for all items included in the deficiency determination.  A refund claim for all other items is subject to the limitations period  in paragraph (1) of this subsection. (4) Extension of limitations period. Before the expiration  of the statute of limitations, the comptroller and a taxpayer may  agree in writing to extend the limitation period in accordance with  Tax Code, §111.203. An extension applies only to the periods  specifically mentioned in the agreement and no single extension agreement  may be for a period that exceeds 24 months from the date of the expiration  of the limitations period being extended. Any refund request pertaining  to periods for which limitations have been extended must be made prior  to the expiration date of the agreement. Following expiration of the  agreement, the statute of limitations applies to subsequent refund  requests as if no extension had been authorized. (5) A redetermination or refund proceeding does not  toll the statute of limitations, except for the issues contested. (6) Failure to file a claim within the limitations  prescribed by this section constitutes a waiver of any demand against  the state on account of the overpayment. (7) The informal review of a refund claim by the comptroller  is not a hearing or contested case and does not toll the limitation  period for any subsequent claim for refund on the same period and  type of tax for which the claim was fully or partially denied. (8) For more information about the statute of limitations,  see §3.339 of this title (relating to Statute of Limitations). (9) Limitations on refunds and credits claimed by organizations  exempt from sales and use tax under Tax Code, §151.310. Organizations  that are exempt from sales and use tax under Tax Code, §151.310  should see §3.322 of this title (relating to Exempt Organizations)  for information about limitations on refunds and credits that may  be claimed depending on whether the organization qualifies for exemption  either before or on or after September 1, 2009. (10) Requirements to toll the statute of limitations. (A) Subject to the other paragraphs of this subsection  regarding the statute of limitations, a refund claim that is filed  with the comptroller will toll the statute of limitations if the following  requirements are met: (i) the claim states fully and in detail each reason  or ground on which the claim is founded, as required by subsection  (a)(4)(A) of this section; (ii) the claim identifies the period during which the  claimed overpayment was made, as required by subsection (a)(4)(B)  of this section; (iii) if the claim is being filed by a non-permitted  person who is an assignee of or successor to a refund that may be  owed, the person submits with the claim for refund the assignment  of right to refund; and (iv) if a person other than the person to whom the  refund is due is submitting the claim for refund, a power of attorney  is submitted with the claim. (B) If the refund claim meets the requirements of subparagraph  (A) of this paragraph, but does not meet the other requirements under  subsection (a)(4) of this section, the claim will be denied and the  person may request a hearing as provided by subsection (e) of this  section. (C) If a person does not meet the requirements of subparagraph  (A) of this paragraph, the statute of limitations will not be tolled. (c) Interest on Refunds. (1) Eligibility for Interest. Interest is earned on  refunds except in the following situations: (A) a refund claim for a period for which a report  is due before January 1, 2000; (B) credits taken by a taxpayer on a return; (C) tax paid on an account that is later determined  to be uncollectable and written off as a bad debt for federal tax  purposes. See §3.302 of this title (relating to Accounting Methods,  Credit Sales, Bad Debt Deductions, Repossessions, Interest on Sales  Tax, and Trade-Ins); and (D) as otherwise determined by the comptroller. (2) Interest rates. (A) Refunds claimed before September 1, 2005. The interest  rate for a refund that is claimed before September 1, 2005 and granted  for a period for which a report is due after December 31, 1999 is  the rate set in Tax Code, §111.060, as provided in Tax Code,  §111.064. (B) Refunds claimed on or after September 1, 2005.  The interest rate for a refund that is claimed on or after September  1, 2005 and granted for a period for which a report is due after December  31, 1999 is the lesser of the annual rate of interest earned on deposits  in the state treasury during December of the previous calendar year  as determined by the comptroller or the rate set in Tax Code, §111.060,  as provided in Tax Code, §111.064. (3) Calculation of Interest. Interest accrues on refund  claims identified in paragraph (1) of this subsection at a rate determined  by paragraph (2) of this subsection on the net amount that is found  to be erroneously paid: (A) beginning on the later of 60 days after the date  of payment or the due date of the tax report; and (B) ending, as determined by the comptroller, on either: (i) the date of allowance of credit that results from  either a final decision that the comptroller has issued or from an  audit; or (ii) a date that is not more than 10 days before the  date of the refund warrant. (d) Determining when a refund is claimed. (1) The postmark date or its equivalent on a refund  request determines when a refund is claimed. "", '(2) If refund claims or credits are pending with the  comptroller and a person makes additional claims for refund, the date  of each claim controls whether interest is due and the amount applicable  to each separate claim. (e) Denial of refund claim. (1) The comptroller will notify the claimant if the  comptroller determines that a refund claim cannot be granted in part  or in full and will also notify the claimant which requirements of  subsection (a)(4) of this section were not met. The claimant may then  request a refund hearing within 30 days of the denial. (2) A person may not refile a refund claim for the  same transaction or item, tax type, period, and ground or reason that  was previously denied by the comptroller. (3) After receiving a timely request for a refund hearing,  the comptroller may issue a written demand notice requesting that  all documentation to enable the comptroller to verify the claim be  produced within 180 days from the date of the demand notice. A person  may not introduce into evidence at the hearing any documents that  were not timely produced as requested by the demand notice. This limitation  does not apply to a judicial proceeding filed in accordance with Tax  Code, Chapter 112. The ability of the comptroller to demand documentation  once a claim for a refund hearing is requested does not eliminate  the requirement that persons provide documentation under subsection  (a)(4)(E) of this section when the refund is first claimed. (f) Payments under protest. A person who intends to  file suit under Tax Code, Chapter 112, Subchapter B, must submit to  the comptroller a letter of protest with the payment of the tax that  is the subject of the protest. For information about payments under  protest and electronic funds transfer payments, see §3.9(h) of  this title (relating to Electronic Filing of Returns and Reports;  Electronic Transfer of Certain Payments by Certain Taxpayers). The  letter of protest must state fully and in detail every reason that  the taxpayer contends that the assessment is unlawful or unauthorized  and must accompany the payment. If the payment and letter of protest  do not accompany one another, the payment will not be deemed to have  been made under protest. The comptroller will advise the taxpayer  of the amount of payment under protest that the comptroller has received  and the date of the payment."
45|§3.326|Carbon Dioxide Capture and Sequestration|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=326|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Advanced Clean Energy Project--A project for which an application for a permit or for an authorization to use a standard permit under Health and Safety Code, Chapter 382 is received by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality on or after January 1, 2008, and before January 1, 2020. At its conclusion, the project will meet all standards with respect to energy sourcing, method of related generation or co-generation of electricity, emissions levels, and carbon dioxide capture and sequestration as set forth in Health and Safety Code, §382.003(1-a). A project may include new construction; nonresidential repair, remodeling, or restoration; maintenance; or the sale and installation of qualifying components of tangible personal property. (2) Anthropogenic Emission Source--A location that emits man-made carbon dioxide, including but not limited to, a coal burning electric production plant. (3) Clean Energy Project--A project defined by Natural Resources Code, §120.001(2), and certified as such by the Railroad Commission of Texas as provided by Natural Resources Code, §120.004. A project may include new construction; nonresidential repair, remodeling, or restoration; maintenance; or the sale and installation of qualifying components of tangible personal property. (4) Components of tangible personal property--For the purposes of this section, the term shall have the meaning given to the term ""tangible personal property"" as defined in Tax Code, §151.009 and includes tubing, pipe, valves, tanks, machinery and equipment, including replacement parts for such items, used specifically to capture carbon dioxide from an anthropogenic emission source, to transport or inject carbon dioxide from such a source, or to prepare carbon dioxide from such a source for transportation or injection. The term also includes actuators, generators, transformers (and the switches, breakers, capacitor banks, regulators, relays, reclosers, fuses, interruptors, reactors, arrestors, resistors, insulators, instrument transformers, and telemetry units that are related to the transformers), electronic control room equipment, computerized control units, pumps, hydraulic units, and related accessories that are used to power, supply, support, or control such components. (5) Install--To attach or incorporate components of tangible personal property that either retain their identity as tangible personal property or become improvements to realty. (6) Maintenance on real property--For operational and functional improvements to realty, maintenance means scheduled, periodic work that is necessary to sustain or support safe, efficient, continuous operations, or to prevent the decline, failure, lapse, or deterioration of the improvement. Taxable real property services that are described by §3.356 of this title (relating to Real Property Service) do not qualify as maintenance. Maintenance does not include work to remodel, modify, upgrade, perform major repair, or restore, even if the work is scheduled or periodic. (A) As it relates to maintenance, the term ""scheduled"" means anticipated and designated to occur within a given time period or production level. (B) As it relates to maintenance, the term ""periodic"" means ongoing or continual or at least occurring at intervals of time or production that are reasonably predictable. (7) Modification--The alteration or upgrade of an existing improvement to real property by repair, remodeling, or restoration (see §3.357 of this title (relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling, and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance)) or the alteration or upgrade of existing components of tangible personal property that have maintained their identity as tangible personal property after installation. Partial demolition of existing nonresidential realty is taxable modification. The complete demolition of an existing nonresidential improvement to real property is not modification and is not taxable. (8) Replacement part--Any part attached to an installed component of tangible personal property to repair or upgrade the component. (9) Sequester--To inject carbon dioxide into a geological formation: (A) as part of an enhanced oil recovery project that qualifies for a tax rate reduction under Tax Code, §202.0545(c); or (B) in a manner and under conditions that create a reasonable expectation that at least 99% of the carbon dioxide will remain separated from the earth's atmosphere for at least 1,000 years. (b) Exemption for certain components of tangible personal property. (1) The sale, use, storage or consumption of components of tangible personal property used in connection with an advanced clean energy project or a clean energy project are exempted from sales and use tax if: (A) the components are installed on the project, either to become annexed to realty or to retain their identity as tangible personal property, are necessary and essential, and are used in this state directly: (i) to capture carbon dioxide from an anthropogenic emission source; (ii) to transport or inject carbon dioxide from such a source; or (iii) to prepare carbon dioxide from such a source for transportation or injection; and (B) the carbon dioxide is sequestered in this state. (2) Items that are merely useful or incidental to the project, such as office machines, office supplies, maintenance supplies, cleaning supplies, lubricants, consumables and similar items are taxable. (c) Records required. A qualifying project must maintain records that support the exemption and are verifiable by audit. See §3.281 of this title (relating to Records Required; Information Required) and §3.282 of this title (relating to Auditing Taxpayer Records). The records must include copies of invoices showing the item purchased, the date of purchase, the amount of purchase and the identity of the seller. Records must also reflect the exempt nature of the component of tangible personal property purchased under an exemption certificate, and must also substantiate at the conclusion of the project that: (1) in the case of a clean energy project, the project is certified by the Railroad Commission of Texas as provided by Natural Resources Code, §120.004; or (2) in the case of an advanced clean energy project, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality has received an application for a permit or for an authorization to use a standard permit under Health and Safety Code Chapter 382 on or after January 1, 2008, and before January 1, 2020, and the project: (A) involves the energy sourcing types and related electricity generation or co-generation methods set forth in Health and Safety Code, §382.003(1-a)(A); (B) meets the emissions level standards set forth in Health and Safety Code, §382.003(1-a)(B); and (C) captures and sequesters carbon dioxide in accordance with the standards set forth in Health and Safety Code, §382.003(1-a)(C). (d) Contracts to improve realty. (1) A contractor who incorporates components of tangible personal property into realty as covered in §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors) may accept an exemption certificate in lieu of tax for any components of tangible personal property that qualify for exemption under subsection (b) of this section sold under a separated contract. Taxable materials, such as foundation materials, must be separately stated from qualifying components of tangible personal property. A single charge for qualifying and nonqualifying materials will be presumed taxable. (2) The services of a contractor who incorporates components of tangible personal property into realty under a lump-sum contract as part of new construction as covered in §3.291 of this title are not taxable. Although a contractor is the consumer of all the materials the contractor uses in the performance of a lump-sum contract, the contractor may issue an exemption certificate to a vendor of components of tangible personal property when the components will be installed on a project qualifying for exemption under subsection (b) of this section. (3) When components of tangible personal property are incorporated into realty as part of a qualifying repair, remodeling, or restoration project as described in subsection (b) of this section, the components will be exempt and should be separately stated from both nonqualifying materials and taxable labor. A lump-sum charge to repair, remodel, or restore nonresidential realty is presumed taxable. The presumption may be overcome by the service provider at the time the transaction occurs by separately stating to the customer a reasonable charge for the taxable services. If, however, the charge for the qualifying components of tangible personal property is not separately stated at the time of the transaction, the service provider or the purchaser may later establish for the comptroller, through documentary evidence, the percentage of the total charge that relates to exempt qualifying components. Examples of acceptable documentation include purchase invoices, bid sheets, or schedules of values. See §3.357 of this title. (e) Sale and Installation. The sale and installation of components of tangible personal property on a qualifying project, as described in subsection (b) of this section, are exempt when the items retain their identity as tangible personal property. (f) Taxable services performed on exempt items. A person who performs repair, restoration, remodeling or maintenance services on exempt components of tangible personal property, which, after installation, retain their identity as tangible personal property, is not required to collect sales tax on that service if the customer provides a properly completed exemption certificate. (g) Maintenance on real property. Components of tangible personal property installed as part of maintenance on real property are exempt when the installation is performed on a clean energy project or an advanced clean energy project. Persons performing real property maintenance under separated contracts should refer to subsection (d)(1) of this section. Persons performing real property maintenance under lump-sum contracts should refer to subsection (d)(2) of this section. (h) Divergent use. A person who claims a valid exemption or refund on the purchase of a component of tangible personal property under the provisions of subsection (b) of this section, but who then uses the item in a taxable manner, is required to report and pay sales tax to the comptroller based on the fair market rental value of the component of tangible personal for the period of time that the item is used in a taxable manner. At any time, a purchaser may elect to pay sales tax on the purchase price of the item, but no credit is allowed for taxes that were previously paid based on fair market value. See §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates). (i) Effective date. The provisions of this section are effective September 1, 2009. A purchaser who claims an exemption under this section must give the seller a properly completed exemption certificate. The sale, use, storage or consumption of such items prior to September 1, 2009, is taxable unless otherwise exempt."
46|§3.327|Taxpayer's Bond or Other Security|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=327|(a) Each person who applies for a tax permit or who becomes  delinquent in the payment of any taxes, penalties, or interest must furnish  security in the amount that the comptroller determines to be sufficient to  protect the state against a failure to pay any amounts or costs which may  become due under the state, city, special purpose district, county, and metropolitan  transit authority sales and use tax laws. (b) A person who applies for a tax permit may be required to  post a bond or security in an amount that is equal to the greater of $100,000  or four times the amount of the average monthly tax liability. An itinerant  vendor may be required to post a bond, but the minimum amount may not be less  than $500. For the purposes of this section, an itinerant vendor is a person  who does not operate any place of business as defined in §3.286 of this  title (relating to Seller's Responsibilities). (c) A permitted retailer who is or has been delinquent in the  payment of state or local sales or use taxes may be required to post a bond  or security in an amount that is equal to the greater of either $100,000 or  four times the amount of the average monthly tax liability. (d) If the comptroller determines at any time that the amount  of the bond on file is inadequate or if a permitted retailer is delinquent  in the payment of any state or local sales or use taxes, the comptroller may  require a new or additional bond to be posted. (e) Types of security. (1) Acceptable types of security: (A) irrevocable assignments of accounts in banks, savings and  loan institutions, and credit unions, whose deposits are insured by an agency  of the United States government; (B) cash (personal checks are acceptable); (C) bank letters of credit that are deemed by the comptroller  to be sufficient in amount and secure; (D) United States Treasury bonds, readily convertible to cash; (E) surety bonds. (2) Unacceptable types of security: (A) corporate stocks and bonds; (B) personal guarantees. (f) An assignment of either a savings account or a certificate  of deposit in an institution insured by an agency of the United States government  must be irrevocable and must be executed on an assignment form approved by  the comptroller. (g) A surety bond must be executed on a form approved by the  comptroller and can be issued only by a surety company chartered or authorized  to do business in the State of Texas. The bond shall constitute a new and  separate obligation in the penal sum named therein for each calendar year  or a portion thereof while the bond is in force. The bond must be executed  by an attorney-in-fact appointed by the surety. The appointing instrument  must be properly notarized and physically attached to the bond. (h) In the event of forfeiture, the comptroller will notify  the holder of the security and demand payment. The comptroller will also notify  the permitted retailer and demand that a new or additional bond or security  for a specified amount be furnished within 10 days of the date of such notice.  This notice shall become final at the expiration of 10 days. Failure to comply  with the requirements of the notice within the 10-day period will result in  the suspension of the retailer's tax permit. (i) Retailer's bond or security when ownership is changed. (1) When the legal structure of a business changes, the retailer  who holds a tax permit must apply for a new permit, as provided by Tax Code, §151.201.  Examples include, but are not limited to, a change from a sole ownership to  a partnership, or a change from a partnership to a corporation. (2) When a retailer applies for a new permit because of a change  in legal structure, the retailer may be required to post a bond or security  as provided by the provisions of this section. The comptroller will review  all available records of the retailer's history of payment of taxes. (3) If, after the review, it appears that the interests of  the state will not be endangered by the new ownership, the comptroller may  determine that no new or additional bond is required. (4) If, however, it appears that there has been a substantial  change in ownership or that security is required to guarantee payment of taxes  by the new entity, the comptroller may require security in accordance with  the provisions of this section.
47|§3.328|Optional Reporting Methods for Grocers and Other Vendors|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=328|(a) Retail grocer defined. Persons who sell food at retail to be consumed off the premises where such food is sold, and who sell household supplies and nondurable household goods, but whose receipts from the sale of any other tangible personal property do not exceed 5.0% of their total receipts, are referred to in this section as retail grocers. Beer and wine are not food products or food, and therefore are tangible personal property. If the receipts from the sale of beer and/or wine exceed 5.0% of the total receipts, a grocer is disqualified from using the 15% reporting method (Method C). (b) Reporting methods. (1) First method (B). (A) Eligibility is restricted to the following classes of retailers: (i) any retail grocer; (ii) any vendor who maintains a separate grocery department with separate records which may be audited by the state, as applies to the grocery department only; (iii) any vendor whose taxable receipts from the sale of taxable items are less than 10% of his total receipts. (B) Procedure: (i) Add all invoices for merchandise purchased during the past calendar or fiscal year to obtain a total of those purchases. (ii) Add all invoices for exempt merchandise purchased during the past calendar or fiscal year to obtain a total of those purchases. (iii) To the total of exempt merchandise purchased in clause (ii) of this subparagraph, add the amount of taxable items purchased during the past calendar or fiscal year for which foodstamps were accepted from the purchaser in lieu of other consideration. (iv) Divide the total amount of exempt merchandise purchased (clause (ii) and (iii) of this subparagraph) by the amount of total purchases (clause (i) of this subparagraph) to obtain a percentage relationship.  (v) Multiply the total receipts from all sales during the reporting period by the percentage thus obtained in clause (iv) of this subparagraph. (vi) Deduct the figure obtained by this multiplication as described in clause (v) of this subparagraph from the total receipts for the reporting period. The remaining amount will be taxable receipts from the sale of taxable items. Any purchases upon which the use tax is due must be added to this amount. (C) This method of calculating taxable receipts from the sale of taxable items is available for reporting purposes only, and is subject to audits as the comptroller may require. If an audit indicates the actual tax liability differs from the tax reported and paid, then the comptroller will assess additional tax or grant a refund. No penalties or interest will be assessed on additional taxes disclosed to be due by audit unless the audit discloses fraud or willful evasion of the tax.  (D) A retail grocer electing to use this method of reporting must maintain records which will substantiate purchases of exempt and taxable items as well as records which will substantiate total gross sales. (2) Second method (C). (A) Eligibility. (i) Restricted to retail grocers, as defined in subsection (a) of this section, whose gross receipts do not exceed $100,000 per calendar year. (ii) A person may use this method for one or more outlets which qualify, as set out in paragraph (1) of this subsection, only if all outlets under the same ownership qualify and combined gross receipts do not exceed $100,000. (B) Procedure. (i) Any retail grocer whose total receipts do not exceed $100,00 per calendar year may elect to report and pay the tax imposed by this chapter on the basis that taxable receipts from the sale of taxable items are equal to 15% of his total receipts. (ii) If a grocer qualifies and elects to use this method, any audits performed on his account will be limited to this method. No additional taxes shall be assessed or refunds or credits allowed because of any showing that the amount of tax paid to the state under this method of reporting differs from the amount that would have been paid under any other reporting method. This method cannot be substituted for another method previously elected, and it is prospective only in nature. (iii) Grocers electing to use this method of reporting are required to continue in the manner prescribed for a period of three years following such election providing the total receipts of such grocers continue to be $100,000 or less. At such time as the gross receipts of any grocer exceed $100,000, such grocer shall, upon the next succeeding calendar month, be ineligible to use this optional method, and he must promptly inform the comptroller of this fact and cease to use that basis immediately. Any retail grocer who fails to inform the comptroller of his ineligibility loses the immunity for audit assessment otherwise provided and consequently is liable for all back taxes, penalty, and interest prescribed by this section and in accordance with the Tax Code, § 151.415. (3) Third method (E). Any retailer, including those mentioned in this section, who establishes an accounting system in which the tax collected pursuant to the Limited Sales Tax Act is commingled with the receipts from the sale of taxable items may determine the taxable receipts in the following manner. (A) He must subtract from his total receipts the receipts from any sales which are specifically exempt from or otherwise excluded from the tax imposed by this Act. The remainder consists of the receipts from the sale of taxable items plus the tax collected pursuant to the provisions of the Act. (B) If the retailer is subject to state tax only, the remainder must be divided by the state tax rate, expressed as a percentage. If the retailer is subject to both state and city tax, the remainder shall be divided by the combined state and city tax rate, expressed as a percentage. (i) If the retailer is subject to state, city, and Metropolitan Transit Authority taxes (MTA), the remainder must be divided by the combined state, city, and MTA tax rate, expressed as a percentage. (ii) If the retailer is within a metropolitan transit authority but not subject to city tax, the remainder must be divided by the combined state and MTA tax rate, expressed as a percentage. (iii) If the retailer is subject to state, city, and county sales taxes, the remainder must be divided by the combined state, city, and county tax rates, expressed as a percentage. (iv) If the retailer is subject to state and county taxes but not subject to city tax, the remainder shall be divided by the combined state and county tax rates, expressed as a percentage. If the retailer is subject to state, city, MTA, and county taxes, the remainder must be divided by the combined total of all taxes expressed as a percentage. (C) The answer resulting is the taxable gross receipts of the retailer for reporting purposes as prescribed by the Tax Code, §151.410, of the Limited Sales Tax Act. (D) The sole purpose of this third method is to permit the widest possible latitude in the internal accounting system of retailers and to avoid requiring certain retailers to remit to the state a tax computed upon a base which already includes the tax imposed by this Act. Nothing in this section may be construed to relieve the retailer of the obligation and duty of collecting the tax in the specific manner prescribed by the Tax Code, §151.053, and the bracket system provided therein. Neither may anything in this third method be construed to relieve the taxpayer of the obligation of paying tax, penalty, and interest upon delinquent taxes. (c) Purchase invoice records must be maintained for at least four years to verify a grocer's sales tax returns regardless of the method chosen for reporting purposes.
48|§3.329|Enterprise Projects, Enterprise Zones, and Defense Readjustment Zones|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=329|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Enterprise project--A qualified business designated by the Texas Department of Economic Development as an enterprise project under Government Code, Chapter 2303.406, for a five-year period. (2) Enterprise zone--An area of the state designated by the Department of Economic Development as an enterprise zone. (3) Equipment and machinery--Any machinery and equipment, including office furniture and equipment, used exclusively in an enterprise zone by a qualified business. These terms do not include building materials or motor vehicles. (4) Local governing body--A governing body of a city or county with an enterprise zone within its boundaries. (5) New permanent job--A job that meets the criteria of a new permanent job as defined by the Texas Department of Economic Development for enterprise projects. (6) One-time refund--The maximum amount that may be refunded from all claims during the life of a qualified business regardless of the amount of tax paid or jobs retained in an enterprise zone. (7) Period--The five-year period that the qualified business has been designated as a project unless the designation is revoked. (8) Qualified business--A person, including a corporation or other entity, that the Texas Department of Economic Development certifies has met the criteria required under the Texas Enterprise Zone Act. (9) Qualified employee--An employee who works for a qualified business and who performs at least 50% of his service for the business within the enterprise zone. (10) Retained job--An existing employment position of a qualified business that has provided employment to a qualified employee of at least 1,820 hours annually. (b) Refund for job retention. (1) Eligibility for a one-time refund of state sales and use tax. A business is eligible for the refund if: (A) the business is certified as a qualified business by a local governing body; (B) has operated in an enterprise zone's jurisdiction for at least three consecutive years before filing a claim; (C) has retained 10 or more jobs held by qualified employees during the year; and (D) has been certified as eligible for a refund to the Comptroller's Department by the Texas Department of Economic Development. (2) When to apply for a one-time refund. On or after September 1, 1991, a qualified business may apply for a refund of state sales and use tax immediately upon receipt of certification from the Texas Department of Economic Development. (3) Accumulated purchases. A qualified business may apply for and receive a refund of tax paid on equipment and machinery upon which the qualified business paid sales or use tax within four years of the date of application. The allowed refund is up to $500 per qualified employee retained, for a total of not more than $5,000. See §3.325 of this title (relating to Refunds, Interest, and Payments Under Protest) for information on the statute of limitations on refunds. (4) How to apply for a one-time state sales or use tax refund. After a qualified business has been certified as eligible for a refund by the local governing body sponsoring the enterprise zone and by the Texas Department of Economic Development, the qualified business may obtain a refund by applying directly to the Comptroller of Public Accounts. A refund request submitted to the comptroller must: (A) be in writing on forms provided by the comptroller; (B) be accompanied by copies of the certification by the Department of Economic Development; and (C) list each item purchased, the name of each seller, invoice or contract number, dollar amount of each purchase, and amount of state tax paid on each purchase. (5) The refund applies to state tax only. No city, county, transit, special purpose district tax, or any other local sales and use tax may be obtained from the state. Information regarding city tax refunds may be obtained from the city having an enterprise zone within its boundaries. (6) Manufacturers. A qualified business engaged in manufacturing that claims a sales tax refund under both §3.300 of this title (relating to Manufacturing; Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating; Processing) and this section on the same machinery and equipment, may not claim more than the total amount of state sales or use tax paid on the machinery and equipment. (7) Records. A qualified business must maintain records supporting the refund request which can be verified by audit. See §3.281 of this title (relating to Records Required; Information Required) and §3.282 of this title (relating to Auditing Taxpayer Records). (c) Enterprise projects. (1) An enterprise project qualifies for a refund of state sales and use tax of $2,000 for each job that has been retained or each new permanent job the enterprise project creates for a qualified employee during its designation as an enterprise project. A qualified business receiving its designation as an enterprise project after August 31, 1995, may not apply for a refund of taxes until after August 31, 1997. Not more than $8 million in state sales and use taxes may be refunded to enterprise projects designated during the biennium beginning September 1, 1995. (2) Only items of the type described in paragraph (3) of this subsection which are purchased by the enterprise project during the designated period or 90 days prior to its designation may be considered in determining the amount of refund available to the project. (3) Subject to the limitations of paragraphs (1), (2), (4), (5), and (6) of this subsection, a refund will be made based on state tax paid purchases of: (A) machinery or equipment for use in the enterprise zone in which the enterprise project is located; (B) building materials for use in constructing, rehabilitating, or remodeling a structure in the enterprise zone in which the enterprise project is located; (C) labor for remodeling, rehabilitating, or constructing a structure in an enterprise zone; and (D) electricity and natural gas purchased and consumed in the normal course of business in the enterprise zone. (4) An enterprise project is not entitled to a refund of any taxes paid by a contractor under a lump-sum contract unless the contractor has received designation as the enterprise project. (5) Sales and use taxes paid on taxable services are not eligible for refund. Taxes paid on materials purchased in conjunction with services will qualify for refund only when the charge for materials is separated from the charge for services and the amount of tax paid on materials is separated. (6) Subject to the limitations prescribed in this subparagraph, refunds will be paid directly to the project. (A) An enterprise project is eligible for a maximum refund of $250,000 in each state fiscal year. (i) The total amount refunded to an enterprise project may not exceed the total amount of state tax paid on qualifying purchases, or the amount determined by multiplying $250,000 by the number of state fiscal years during the designated period of the enterprise project, whichever is less. The refund may not exceed $2,000 for each job retained or each new job created for a qualified employee. (ii) An enterprise project that qualifies for a refund that exceeds $250,000 during a state fiscal year may carry the excess to a subsequent year subject to the $250,000 limitation in each year. (iii) Any carry-over or other eligible refunds must be applied for no later than the end of the next state fiscal year that follows the fiscal year in which the designation as an enterprise project expires or is removed by the Texas Department of Economic Development. (B) Claims for refund must be in writing and must indicate the period for which the refund is claimed and must reflect the written approval of the Texas Department of Economic Development with respect to the number of jobs retained or new permanent jobs created during the period. A claim for refund may be made annually or semiannually. Annual claims cover the period from September-August of each fiscal year. Semiannual claims cover the period from September-February and from March-August of each fiscal year. (7) For refunds applied for after August 31, 1991, the following conditions apply: (A) the qualified business must maintain the same level of employment of qualified employees for three years as existed at the time it qualified for a refund; (B) annually, the Texas Department of Economic Development shall certify that the correct level of employment has been maintained; and (C) the comptroller shall assess the qualified business that portion of the refund attributable to any decrease in employment, plus penalty and interest from the date of the refund. (8) An enterprise project must retain records substantiating each claim for refund. The records must be verifiable by audit and include copies of invoices showing the item purchased, the date of purchase, amount of purchase, the amount of tax paid, and the identity of the seller. The records must also show that the machinery and equipment and building materials purchased are for use within the zone. Employment records must also be kept verifying the number of new jobs created. (d) Defense economic readjustment zones. (1) Definitions applicable to subsection (d) only: (A) Defense readjustment project--A person designated by the Texas Department of Economic Development as a defense readjustment project under the Government Code, Title 10, Subtitle G, Chapter 2310. (B) Qualified business--A person certified as a qualified business under Government Code, §2310.302. (C) Qualified employee--A person who: (i) works for a qualified business; and (ii) performs at least 50% of the person's service for the business in the readjustment zone. (D) Readjustment zone--An area designated as a defense economic readjustment zone under the Government Code, Chapter 2310. (2) Tax refunds for defense readjustment projects. (A) A defense readjustment project is eligible for a refund in the amount provided by this section of the state sales and use taxes imposed by this chapter on purchases of: (i) equipment or machinery sold to a defense readjustment project for use in a readjustment zone; (ii) building materials sold to a defense readjustment project for use in remodeling, rehabilitating, or constructing a structure in a readjustment zone; (iii) labor for remodeling, rehabilitating, or constructing a structure, not qualifying as a new construction, by a defense readjustment project in a readjustment zone; and (iv) electricity and natural gas purchased and consumed in the normal course of business in the readjustment zone. (B) Subject to the limitations provided by subparagraph (C) of this paragraph, a defense readjustment project qualifies for a refund of taxes under this section of $2,500 for each new permanent job or job that has been retained by the defense readjustment project for a qualified employee. (C) The total amount of tax refund that a defense readjustment project may apply for in a state fiscal year may not exceed $250,000. If a defense readjustment project qualifies in a state fiscal year for a refund of taxes in an amount in excess of the limitation provided by this subsection, it may apply for a refund of those taxes in a subsequent year, subject to the $250,000 limitation for each year. However, a defense readjustment project may not apply for a refund under this section after the end of the state fiscal year immediately following the state fiscal year in which the defense readjustment project's designation as a defense readjustment project expires or is removed. The total amount that may be refunded to a defense readjustment project under this section may not exceed the amount determined by multiplying $250,000 by the number of state fiscal years during which the defense readjustment project created one or more jobs for qualified employees. (D) Only qualified businesses that have been certified as eligible for a tax refund under this section by the Texas Department of Economic Development to the comptroller and the Legislative Budget Board are entitled to the tax refund. (E) To receive a state tax refund under this section, a defense readjustment project must apply to the comptroller for the refund. A refund request submitted to the comptroller must: (i) be in writing in a format prescribed by the comptroller; (ii) be accompanied by copies of the certification by the Texas Department of Economic Development; (iii) list each qualifying item purchased, the name of each seller, invoice or contract number, dollar amount of each purchase, and amount of state tax paid on each purchase. (F) A defense readjustment project applying for a refund of state taxes under this subsection must retain records substantiating each claim for refund. The records must be verifiable by audit and include copies of invoices showing the item purchased, the date of purchase, amount of purchase, the amount of tax paid, and the identity of the seller. The records must also show that the qualifying taxable items purchased were for use within the zone. Employment records must also be kept verifying the number of new jobs created or retained. (G) For possible local tax abatements, see the Government Code, §2310.405.
49|§3.330|Data Processing Services|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=330|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in  this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly  indicates otherwise. (1) Data processing services - the processing of information  for the purpose of compiling and producing records of transactions, maintaining  information, and entering and retrieving information. It specifically includes  word processing, payroll and business accounting, and computerized data and  information storage or manipulation. The charge for data processing services  is taxable regardless of the ownership of the computer. Examples of data processing  services include entering inventory control data for a company, maintaining  records of employee work time, filing payroll tax returns, preparing W-2 forms,  and computing and preparing payroll checks. Data processing does not include  the use of a computer by a provider of other services when the computer is  used to facilitate the performance of the service or the application of the  knowledge of the physical sciences, accounting principles, and tax laws, e.g.,  the use of a computer to provide interpretive or enhancement geophysical services  or the use of a computer by a CPA firm, enrolled agent, or bookkeeping firm  to produce a financial report, prepare federal income tax, state franchise  or sales tax returns, or charges for temporary secretarial personnel who as  part of their function use word processing equipment. Data processing services  does not include Internet access services or data processing services provided  in conjunction with and incidental to the provision of Internet access service  when billed as a single charge. (2) Internet - collectively the myriad of computer and  telecommunications facilities, including equipment and operating software,  that comprise the interconnected worldwide network of networks that employ  the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol, or any predecessor or  successor protocols to the protocol, to communicate information of all kinds  by wire or radio. (3) Internet access service - a service that enables users  to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services offered  over the Internet and may also include access to proprietary content, information,  and other services as part of a package of services offered to consumers.  Internet access service does not include any other taxable service, unless  the taxable service is provided in conjunction with and is merely incidental  to the provision of Internet access service. Individuals providing Internet  access should refer to §3.366 of this title (relating to Internet Access  Services). (b) Hold permits. All providers of data processing services  must obtain Texas sales and use tax permits and collect tax on charges for  data processing services, or accept properly completed resale, exemption,  or direct pay permit certificates in lieu of collecting tax. See §3.285  of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale); §3.287  of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates); §3.288 of this title  (relating to Direct Payment Procedures and Qualifications). Effective October  1, 1999, 20% of the total amount charged for data processing services is exempted  from tax. The exemption applies to services performed on or after October  1, 1999. The exemption does not apply to services performed before the effective  date and billed or paid for after the effective date of the exemption. (c) Resale certificates. (1) Providers of data processing services may issue a resale  certificate in lieu of tax to suppliers of tangible personal property only  if care, custody, and control of the property is transferred to the client.  For example, a service provider purchases magnetic tape to transfer the results  of data processing services to customers. The tape is transferred to the customer,  and the customer owns and uses the tape to review the results of the data  processing service. The service provider may purchase the tape tax free by  issuing a resale certificate. Tax is due on the total amount charged the customer,  including amounts for the tape and for the services. (2) A resale certificate may be issued for a service if  the buyer intends to transfer the service as an integral part of taxable services.  A service will be considered an integral part of a taxable service if the  service purchased is essential to the performance of the taxable service and  without which the taxable service could not be rendered. (3) A resale certificate may be issued for a taxable service  if the buyer intends to incorporate the service into tangible personal property  which will be resold. If the entire service is not incorporated into the tangible  personal property, it will be presumed the service is subject to tax and the  service will only be exempt to the extent the buyer can establish the portion  of the service actually incorporated into the tangible personal property.  If the buyer does not intend to incorporate the entire service into the tangible  personal property, no resale certificate may be issued, but credit may be  claimed at the time of sale of the tangible personal property to the extent  the service was actually incorporated into the tangible personal property.  (d) Unrelated services. (1) A service will be considered as unrelated if: (A) it is neither a data processing service, nor a service  taxed under other provisions of the Tax Code, Chapter 151; (B) it is of a type which is commonly provided on a stand-alone  basis; and (C) the performance of the service is distinct and identifiable.  Examples of such a service would be consultation, development of and preparation  of feasibility studies, design and development, or training. (2) Where nontaxable unrelated services and taxable  services are sold or purchased for a single charge and the portion relating  to taxable services represents more than 5.0% of the total charge, the total  charge is presumed to be taxable. The presumption may be overcome by the data  processing service provider at the time the transaction occurs by separately  stating to the customer a reasonable charge for the taxable services. However,  if the charge for the taxable portion of the services is not separately stated  at the time of the transaction, the service provider or the purchaser may  later establish for the comptroller, through documentary evidence, the percentage  of the total charge that relates to nontaxable unrelated services. The service  provider's books must support the apportionment between exempt and nonexempt  activities based on the cost of providing the service or on a comparison to  the normal charge for each service if provided alone. If the charge for exempt  services is unreasonable when the overall transaction is reviewed considering  the cost of providing the service or a comparable charge made in the industry  for each service, the comptroller will adjust the charges and assess additional  tax, penalty, and interest on the taxable services. (3) Charges for services or expenses directly related  to and incurred while providing the taxable service are taxable and may not  be separated for the purpose of excluding these charges from the tax base.  Examples would be charges for meals, telephone calls, hotel rooms, or airplane  tickets. (e) Service benefit location. If both the data processing service  provider and the customer are located in Texas, Texas tax is due. (f) Service benefit location--multi-state customer. (1) To the extent a data processing service is used to support  a separate, identifiable segment of a customer's business (other than general  administration or operation of the business) the service is presumed to be  used at the location where that part of the business is conducted. (2) If that part of the business is conducted at locations  both within and outside the state, the service is not taxable to the extent  it is used outside Texas. A multi-state customer may use any reasonable method  for allocation which is supported by business records. (3) A multi-state customer purchasing data processing  services for the benefit of both in-state and out-of-state locations is responsible  for issuing to the data processing service provider an exemption certificate  asserting a multi-state benefit, and for reporting and paying the tax on that  portion of the data processing charge which will benefit the Texas location.  A data processing service provider that accepts such a certificate in good  faith is relieved of responsibility for collecting and remitting tax on transactions  to which the certificate relates. (4) The customer's books must support the assignment of  the service to an identifiable segment of the business, the determination  of the location or locations of the use of the service, and the allocation  of the taxable charge to Texas. (5) To the extent the use of the service cannot be assigned  to an identifiable segment of a customer's business, the service is presumed  to be used to support the administration or operation of the customer's business  generally. The service is presumed to be used at the customer's principal  place of business. The principal place of business means the place from which  the trade or business is directed or managed. (g) Local taxes. (1) For local sales tax purposes, city, county, transit authority,  and/or special purpose district sales taxes are due if the data processing  service provider has only one place of business (the location where clients  request service) within the boundaries of a local taxing entity. Local sales  tax must be collected based upon the tax rate at that location, except that  no MTA or CTD sales tax is due on services provided at a location outside  the boundaries of the transit area. In the case of multiple locations, if  an order for service is placed at one location but the service is provided  at another location, the place of business from which the service is provided  will determine to which local taxing entity the tax is allocated. (2) For the purposes of the local use tax, if a place  of business is outside the boundaries of a local taxing entity, the data processing  service provider will be required to collect local use tax if the client is  within the local taxing entity and the service provider has representation  in the local taxing entity as outlined in §3.286 of this title (relating  to Seller's and Purchaser's Responsibilities). Even if the service provider  is not required to collect local use tax, the client is still liable for the  tax if the service is performed or a benefit is derived from the service within  the boundaries of a local taxing entity. (A) An in-state customer purchasing data processing services  for the benefit of locations in more than one local taxing entity is responsible  for issuing to the data processing service provider an exemption certificate  claiming a multi-city benefit and for determining the extent of benefit for  each entity. The local use tax for each entity must be reported, allocated,  and paid by the customer. A data processing service provider that accepts  in good faith an exemption certificate claiming a multi-city benefit is relieved  of responsibility for collecting and remitting local tax on transactions to  which the certificate relates. (B) A multi-state customer purchasing data processing services  for the benefit of both in-state and out-of-state locations is responsible  for issuing an exemption certificate and for reporting and paying local tax  as provided by subsection (f)(3) and (4) of this section. (h) Use tax. If a provider of a data processing service is  not doing business in Texas or in a specific local taxing jurisdiction and  is not required to collect Texas tax, it is the Texas customer's responsibility  to report and pay the state and local use tax directly to this office.
50|§3.331|Transfers of Common Interests in Tangible Personal Property; Intercorporate Services|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=331|(a) Transfer of common interests. (1) Sales or use tax is not due when an interest in tangible personal property is sold to a purchaser who, either before or after the sale, owns a joint or undivided interest in the tangible personal property with the seller. (2) In order for the sale to be exempt, the following requirements must be met. (A) The seller must have paid sales or use tax on the tangible personal property when it was purchased. (B) The sale must be made pursuant to the terms of a good faith contractual relationship between the seller and the purchaser. Good faith contractual relationship means a legal relationship established between two or more persons created for considerations other than the avoidance of the limited sales and use tax. (C) It is necessary that the purchaser, either before or after the sale, own a joint or undivided interest in the property with the seller. The joint ownership transfer exemption does not apply to sales between related corporations or other entities if the only joint ownership is the ultimate ownership of the corporation stock. (b) Research and development ventures. Sales and use tax is not due on tangible personal property sold by a joint research and development venture as defined by 15 United States Code §4301 to a participating entity if the tangible personal property is created, developed, or substantially modified by or for the joint research and development venture. (c) Intercorporate services. (1) Sales or use tax is not due on charges for taxable services if the seller and purchaser are affiliated entities that are members of an affiliated group under 26 U.S.C. §1504, and if both entities report their income to the Internal Revenue Service on a single consolidated income tax return with at least one corporation that is a member of the affiliated group for the tax year in which the taxable service is provided. If either the seller or the purchaser elects to file a separate federal income tax return even though it is eligible to file a consolidated federal income tax return with other members of the affiliated group, the exemption provided by this subsection does not apply. (2) Sales or use tax is not due on charges for taxable services if both the seller and purchaser are entities classified as members of an affiliated group under 26 U.S.C. §1504, but either the seller or purchaser or both cannot file a consolidated federal income tax return because of the exclusions provided by 26 U.S.C. §1504(b). (3) The exemption provided by this subsection does not apply to sales of tangible personal property between affiliated corporations or sales of services that were taxable before September 2, 1987. The following services were taxable before September 2, 1987: (A) amusement services; (B) cable television services; (C) personal services; (D) motor vehicle parking and storage; (E) the repair, remodeling, maintenance, or restoration of tangible personal property except maintenance of computer software and those services excluded from tax by Tax Code, §151.0101(a)(5); and (F) telecommunications services. (4) A seller of a taxable service must pay sales or use tax on its purchase of tangible personal property that the seller transfers as an integral part of the taxable service if the sale of the taxable service is exempt from sales tax under this subsection. The seller may not claim a sale for resale exemption. (5) A seller of a taxable service must pay sales or use tax on its purchase of a taxable service that the seller transfers as an integral part of the taxable service sold if the sale of the taxable service is exempt from sales tax under this subsection. The seller may not claim a sale for resale exemption. (6) When a contract contains charges for taxable items and charges for services that qualify for exemption under this subsection, the total charge will be taxable unless the charge for taxable items is separately stated to the customer.
51|§3.332|Drilling Equipment|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=332|"(a) Drilling equipment built for exclusive use outside Texas. The Texas Tax Code, §151.324(b) exempts the receipts from a sale, lease, or rental of, or the storage, use, or other consumption in this state of drilling equipment used in the exploration for or production of oil, gas, sulphur, or other minerals when such equipment is built for exclusive use outside the boundaries of the State of Texas and is removed forthwith from the state upon completion. (b) Offshore exploration or production. The Texas Tax Code, §151.324(a)(1) exempts the receipts from a sale, lease, or rental in this state of casing, drill pipe, tubing, and other pipe to be used in exploration for or production of oil, gas, sulphur, and other minerals offshore outside the territorial limits of the state from the tax. The Texas Tax Code, §151.324(a)(2), (c), and (d) extends the above exemption to all tangible personal property which is to be used exclusively in the exploration for or production of oil, gas, sulphur, or other minerals offshore and outside the territorial limits of the state. Such tangible personal property may be delivered to the purchaser or lessee in this state for removal by his own facilities or by any other means beyond the territorial limits of the state, or may be shipped to any place in the state for further assembly or fabrication, and the receipts from a sale, lease, or rental of such property made upon completion of the assembly or fabrication are exempt if the property is forthwith removed beyond the territorial limits of the state. (c) Boundaries. Boundaries of the state includes all territory within the exterior limits of the State of Texas. The gulfward boundary of Texas is confirmed at three marine leagues from the coast. Removal from state ""forthwith' means removal from the state within a reasonable period of time from the transfer of possession of the property providing that there is no use or consumption of the property within the state. If at the time of sale, delivery, assembly, or fabrication, it is not known whether the property will be used outside the state, then the taxes must be paid to the vendor or lessor. (d) Proof of exemption. Where such property as may be exempted under this section is delivered in Texas to the purchaser or his designated agent, such property shall be presumed to be taxable unless the retailer obtains an exemption certificate from the purchaser stating the property is for exclusive use outside the boundaries of the state or offshore outside the territorial limits of state."
52|§3.333|Security Services|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=333|(a) Security service. Any service for which a license  is required under Occupations Code, §1702.101 or §1702.102,  Private Security Chapter, and includes any service provided within  the scope of the required license as an investigations company, guard  company, alarm systems company, armored car company, courier company,  guard dog company, security services contractor, private security  officer, detective service, private investigator, locksmith company,  or private security consultant company. (b) Permit required. A provider of security services  must obtain a Texas sales and use tax permit and collect tax on the  total amount charged for security services, or accept a properly completed  resale or exemption certificate in lieu of collecting tax. See §3.285  of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale) and §3.287  of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates). (c) Employees. Security services performed by an employee  for his employer in the regular course of business, within the scope  of the employee's duties, and for which the employee is paid his regular  wages or salary are not taxable. (d) Temporary security service personnel. A security  service is taxable even when provided on a temporary basis unless: (1) the security service is performed by a temporary  help service for an employer to supplement the employer's existing  security service personnel on a temporary basis; (2) the security service is normally performed by the  employer's own employees; (3) the employer provides all supplies and equipment  necessary; and (4) the temporary employee is under the direct or general  supervision of the employer to whom the security service is furnished. (e) Security services provided in Texas. Charges for  providing security service to property or persons located in Texas  are subject to Texas sales tax. Unless a customer claims multistate  benefit as provided in subsection (p) of this section, if any portion  of the security service originates in Texas, Texas sales tax is due  even though a portion of the service may be performed in another state.  Credit will not be allowed against Texas sales tax for use tax imposed  by another state when the service benefit location is in Texas. Detective  and investigation services of corporate locations or premises located  outside Texas are not taxable if the investigation is unrelated to  any investigation of corporate locations in Texas. (f) Credit for security services originating in another  state. If a security service originates in another state and sales  tax is legally paid on that service in the other state, credit against  the Texas use tax will be allowed. See §3.338 of this title (relating  to Multistate Tax Credits and Allowance of Credit for Tax Paid to  Suppliers). (g) Resale certificates. (1) A seller of a security service may issue a resale  certificate in lieu of tax to a supplier of tangible personal property  only if care, custody, and control of the property will be transferred  to the service provider's client. For example, a security service  provider purchases a DVD to transfer the results of an investigation  to a customer. The DVD is transferred to the customer, and the customer  owns and uses the DVD to review the results of the security service.  The security service provider may purchase the DVD tax free by issuing  a resale certificate. Tax is due on the total amount charged the customer,  including amounts for the DVD and for the services. (2) A resale certificate may be issued for a taxable  service if the buyer intends to transfer the service as an integral  part of a taxable service. A service will be considered an integral  part of a taxable service if the service purchased is essential to  the performance of the taxable service and without which the taxable  service could not be rendered. (3) A resale certificate may be issued for a taxable  service if the buyer intends to incorporate the service into tangible  personal property that will be resold. If the entire service is not  incorporated into the tangible personal property, it will be presumed  the service is subject to tax and the service will be exempt only  to the extent the buyer can establish the portion of the service actually  incorporated into the tangible personal property. If the buyer does  not intend to incorporate the entire service into the tangible personal  property, no resale certificate may be issued, but credit may be claimed  at the time of sale of the tangible personal property to the extent  the service was actually incorporated into the tangible personal property. (h) Sales price, unrelated services. (1) Providers of taxable security services must collect  state and all applicable local sales tax on the total sales price  of the services provided unless they receive a properly completed  resale or exemption certificate from the purchaser. (2) The total sales price includes charges for services  or expenses directly related to and incurred while providing a taxable  security service, even if billed separately. Examples include charges  for meals, telephone calls, hotel rooms, or airplane tickets. (3) Where nontaxable unrelated services and taxable  services are sold or purchased for a single charge and the portion  relating to taxable services represents more than 5.0% of the total  charge, the total charge is presumed to be taxable. The service provider  may overcome the presumption by separately stating to the customer  at the time the transaction occurs a reasonable charge for the taxable  services. However, if the charge for the taxable portion of the services  is not separately stated at the time of the transaction, the service  provider or the purchaser may later establish for the comptroller,  through documentary evidence, the percentage of the total charge that  relates to nontaxable unrelated services. The service provider's books  must support the apportionment between taxable and nontaxable activities  based on the cost of providing the service or on a comparison to the  normal charge for each service if provided alone. If the charge for  nontaxable services is unreasonable when the overall transaction is  reviewed, the comptroller will adjust the charges and assess additional  tax, penalty, and interest on the taxable services. (4) Charges for services or expenses directly related  to and incurred while providing a taxable service are taxable and  may not be separated for the purpose of excluding those charges from  the tax base. Examples include charges for meals, telephone calls,  hotel rooms, or airplane tickets. (5) A service will be considered unrelated, and thus  not part of the sales price of a taxable security service, if: (A) it is not a security service, nor a service taxable  under other provisions of Tax Code, Chapter 151; (B) it is of a type that is commonly provided on a  stand-alone basis; and (C) the performance of the unrelated service is distinct  and identifiable. Examples of unrelated services that may be excluded  from the tax base include a service for which no license is required,  such as coin-wrapping services by a courier or armored car service,  or providing court testimony, training, or filing legal documents. (i) Excepted persons. Persons excepted from the licensing  requirements of the Private Security Act are not providing security  services subject to the sales tax because they are not required to  hold a license to provide their services. Examples include, but are  not limited to: (1) persons employed exclusively and regularly by one  employer in connection with the affairs of the employer; (2) officers or employees of the United States, this  state, or a political subdivision of either, while engaged in the  performance of official duties; (3) persons who have full-time employment as peace  officers as defined by Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 2.12, and  who satisfy the requirements of Occupations Code, §1702.322,  and who receive compensation for private employment on an individual  or an independent contractor basis as patrolmen, guards, or watchmen; (4) persons who provide telematics services (a service  that may rely on global positioning system satellite data to fix the  exact location of a vehicle) as defined in Occupations Code, §1702.332(a),  and who have satisfied exemption requirements as set out in Occupations  Code, §1702.332(c); (5) persons who sell burglar alarm or other protective  devices exclusively over-the-counter, by mail order or by e-commerce; (6) persons who sell or install automobile burglar  alarm devices; (7) persons set out in Occupations Code, §1702.331(b),  who provide personal emergency response systems as defined in Occupations  Code, §1702.331(a), that are not part of a combination of alarm  systems that include burglar alarm or fire alarm; and (8) a person or firm licensed as an accountant or accounting  firm under Occupations Code, Chapter 901, an owner of an accounting  firm, or an employee of an accountant or accounting firm. (j) A charge for using a slim-jim or similar device  to open a locked vehicle is not taxable, even when the service provider  is a licensed locksmith. (k) Taxable under other provisions. Persons whose activities  are not defined as security services may nonetheless be performing  a service that is taxable under other provisions. Examples include,  but are not limited to: (1) persons engaged in the business of obtaining and  furnishing credit information. See §3.343 of this title (relating  to Credit Reporting Services); (2) insurance adjusters, insurance investigators, and/or  claims processors performing services in connection with a policy  of insurance. Although not taxable as security services, some insurance  services are subject to sales and use tax. See §3.355 of this  title (relating to Insurance Services); (3) persons who install electronic access control devices,  as that term is defined in Occupations Code, §1702.002(a)(6-a)  in existing nonresidential improvements to real property. Although  not taxable as a security service, the installation of such a device  in an existing nonresidential real property improvement may be taxable  as nonresidential real property repair, remodeling or restoration.  See §3.357 of this title (relating to Nonresidential Real Property  Repair, Remodeling, and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance). (l) Undercover agents. The fact that a security service  provider may be performing his services by furnishing an undercover  agent will not affect the applicability of sales tax to the service  transaction between the employer and the consumer. The employer of  the undercover agent is considered to be providing security services  to a client, and that transaction is subject to the sales tax. (m) Local taxes. Local sales and use taxes (city, county,  transit authority, and special purpose district) apply to services  in the same way as they apply to tangible personal property. A service  provider must collect local sales taxes if the service provider's  place of business is within a local taxing jurisdiction, even if the  service is actually provided at a location outside that jurisdiction.  If the place of business is outside such a jurisdiction but the service  is provided to a customer within a local taxing jurisdiction, local  use taxes apply and the service provider is responsible for collecting  them. For information on the collection and reporting responsibilities  of providers and purchasers of taxable services, see §3.334 of  this title (relating to Local Sales and Use Taxes). (n) Use tax. If a seller of a service is not engaged  in business in Texas or in a specific local taxing jurisdiction and  is not required to collect Texas state or local tax, it is the Texas  customer's responsibility to report the use tax directly to this office. (o) Service benefit location. If the security service  provider is in Texas and the customer is located only in Texas, Texas  tax is due, and must be collected by the security service provider. (p) Service benefit location--multistate customer. (1) To the extent a security service is provided for  a separate, identifiable segment of a customer's business, the service  is presumed to benefit the location where that part of the customer's  business is conducted. (2) To the extent the use of the service cannot be  assigned to an identifiable segment of a customer's business, the  service is presumed to be used to support the administration or operation  of the customer's business generally. The security service is presumed  to be used at the customer's principal place of business. The principal  place of business means the place from which the trade or business  is directed or managed. (3) If a multistate customer claims that part of the  security service benefits the customer's business at locations both  within and outside the state, the customer must provide the security  service provider with an exemption certificate in lieu of tax. It  will then be the customer's responsibility to report the tax to this  office for that portion of the security service that benefits Texas  locations. The security service will not be taxable to the extent  the customer can establish benefit outside Texas. A multistate customer  may use any reasonable method for allocation that is supported by  business records. (4) A security service provider who accepts an exemption  certificate in good faith is relieved of responsibility for collecting  and remitting tax on transactions to which the certificate relates.
53|§3.334|Local Sales and Use Taxes|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=334|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Cable system--The system through which a cable  service provider delivers cable television or bundled cable service,  as those terms are defined in §3.313 of this title (relating  to Cable Television Service and Bundled Cable Service).  (2) City--An incorporated city, municipality, town,  or village.  (3) City sales and use tax--The tax authorized under  Tax Code, §321.101(a), including the additional municipal sales  and use tax authorized under Tax Code, §321.101(b), the municipal  sales and use tax for street maintenance authorized under Tax Code, §327.003,  the Type A Development Corporation sales and use tax authorized under  Local Government Code, §504.251, the Type B Development Corporation  sales and use tax authorized under Local Government Code, §505.251,  a sports and community venue project sales and use tax adopted by  a city under Local Government Code, §334.081, and a municipal  development corporation sales and use tax adopted by a city under  Local Government Code, §379A.081. The term does not include the  fire control, prevention, and emergency medical services district  sales and use tax authorized under Tax Code, §321.106, or the  municipal crime control and prevention district sales and use tax  authorized under Tax Code, §321.108.  (4) Comptroller's website--The agency's website concerning  local taxes located at: https://comptroller.texas.gov/taxes/sales/.  (5) County sales and use tax--The tax authorized under  Tax Code, §323.101, including a sports and community venue project  sales and use tax adopted by a county under Local Government Code, §334.081.  The term does not include the county health services sales and use  tax authorized under Tax Code, §324.021, the county landfill  and criminal detention center sales and use tax authorized under Tax  Code, §325.021, or the crime control and prevention district  sales and use tax authorized under Tax Code, §323.105.  (6) Drop shipment--A transaction in which an order  is received by a seller at one location, but the item purchased is  shipped by the seller from another location, or is shipped by the  seller's third-party supplier, directly to a location designated by  the purchaser.  (7) Engaged in business--This term has the meaning  given in §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller's and Purchaser's  Responsibilities).  (8) Extraterritorial jurisdiction--An unincorporated  area that is contiguous to the corporate boundaries of a city as defined  in Local Government Code, §42.021.  (9) Fulfill--To complete an order by transferring a  taxable item directly to a purchaser at a Texas location, or to ship  or deliver a taxable item to a location in Texas designated by the  purchaser. The term does not include tracking an order, determining  shipping costs, managing inventory, or other activities that do not  involve the transfer, shipment, or delivery of a taxable item to the  purchaser or a location designated by the purchaser.  (10) Itinerant vendor--A seller who travels to various  locations for the purpose of receiving orders and making sales of  taxable items and who has no place of business in this state. A person  who sells items through vending machines is also an itinerant vendor.  A salesperson that operates out of a place of business in this state  is not an itinerant vendor.  (11) Kiosk--A small stand-alone area or structure:  (A) that is used solely to display merchandise or to  submit orders for taxable items from a data entry device, or both;  (B) that is located entirely within a location that  is a place of business of another seller, such as a department store  or shopping mall; and  (C) at which taxable items are not available for immediate  delivery to a purchaser.  (12) Local taxes--Sales and use taxes imposed by any  local taxing jurisdiction.  (13) Local taxing jurisdiction--Any of the following:  (A) a city that imposes sales and use tax as provided  under paragraph (3) of this subsection;  (B) a county that imposes sales and use tax as provided  under paragraph (5) of this subsection;  (C) a special purpose district created under the Special  District Local Laws Code or other provisions of Texas law that is  authorized to impose sales and use tax by the Tax Code or other provisions  of Texas law and as governed by the provisions of Tax Code, Chapters  321 or 323 and other provisions of Texas law; or  (D) a transit authority that imposes sales and use  tax as authorized by Transportation Code, Chapters, 451, 452, 453,  457, or 460 and governed by the provisions of Tax Code, Chapter, 322.  (14) Marketplace provider--This term has the meaning  given in §3.286 of this title.  (15) Order placed in person--An order placed by a purchaser  with the seller while physically present at the seller's place of  business regardless of how the seller subsequently enters the order.  (16) Place of business of the seller - general definition--An  established outlet, office, or location operated by a seller for the  purpose of selling taxable items to those other than employees, independent  contractors, and natural persons affiliated with the seller, where  sales personnel of the seller receive three or more orders for taxable  items during the calendar year. The term does not include a computer  server, Internet protocol address, domain name, website, or software  application. Additional criteria for determining when a location is  a place of business of the seller are provided in subsection (b) of  this section for distribution centers, manufacturing plants, storage  yards, warehouses and similar facilities; kiosks; and purchasing offices.  An outlet, office, facility, or any location that contracts with a  retail or commercial business to process for that business invoices,  purchase orders, bills of lading, or other equivalent records onto  which sales tax is added, including an office operated for the purpose  of buying and selling taxable goods to be used or consumed by the  retail or commercial business, is not a place of business of the seller  if the comptroller determines that the outlet, office, facility, or  location functions or exists to avoid the tax legally due under Tax  Code, Chapters 321, 322, and 323 or exists solely to rebate a portion  of the tax imposed by those chapters to the contracting business.  An outlet, office, facility, or location does not exist to avoid the  tax legally due under Tax Code, Chapters 321, 322, and 323 or solely  to rebate a portion of the tax imposed by those chapters if the outlet,  office, facility, or location provides significant business services,  beyond processing invoices, to the contracting business, including  logistics management, purchasing, inventory control, or other vital  business services.  (17) Purchasing office--An outlet, office, facility,  or any location that contracts with a retail or commercial business  to process for that business invoices, purchase orders, bills of lading,  or other equivalent records onto which sales tax is added, including  an office operated for the purpose of buying and selling taxable goods  to be used or consumed by the retail or commercial business.  (18) Remote Seller--As defined in §3.286 of this  title, a remote seller is a seller engaged in business in this state  whose only activity in the state is:  (A) engaging in regular or systematic solicitation  of sales of taxable items in this state by the distribution of catalogs,  periodicals, advertising flyers, or other advertising, by means of  print, radio, or television media, or by mail, telegraphy, telephone,  computer data base, cable, optic, microwave, or other communication  system for the purpose of effecting sales of taxable items; or  (B) soliciting orders for taxable items by mail or  through other media including the Internet or other media that may  be developed in the future.  (19) Seller--This term has the meaning given in §3.286  of this title and also refers to any agent or employee of the seller.  (20) Special purpose district--A local governmental  entity authorized by the Texas legislature for a specific purpose,  such as crime control, a local library, emergency services, county  health services, or a county landfill and criminal detention center.  (21) Storage--This term has the meaning given in §3.346  of this title (relating to Use Tax).  (22) Temporary place of business of the seller--A location  operated by a seller for a limited period of time for the purpose  of selling and receiving orders for taxable items and where the seller  has inventory available for immediate delivery to a purchaser. For  example, a person who rents a booth at a weekend craft fair or art  show to sell and take orders for jewelry, or a person who maintains  a facility at a job site to rent tools and equipment to a contractor  during the construction of real property, has established a temporary  place of business. A temporary place of business of the seller includes  a sale outside of a distribution center, manufacturing plant, storage  yard, warehouse, or similar facility of the seller in a parking lot  or similar space sharing the same physical address as the facility  but not within the walls of the facility.  (23) Transit authority--A metropolitan rapid transit  authority (MTA), advanced transportation district (ATD), regional  or subregional transportation authority (RTA), city transit department  (CTD), county transit authority (CTA), regional mobility authority  (RMA) or coordinated county transportation authority created under  Transportation Code, Chapters 370, 451, 452, 453, 457, or 460.  (24) Two percent cap--A reference to the general rule  that, except as otherwise provided by Texas law and as explained in  this section, a seller cannot collect, and a purchaser is not obligated  to pay, more than 2.0% of the sales price of a taxable item in total  local sales and use taxes for all local taxing jurisdictions.  (25) Use--This term has the meaning given in §3.346  of this title.  (26) Use tax--A tax imposed on the storage, use or  other consumption of a taxable item in this state.  (b) Determining the place of business of a seller.  (1) Distribution centers, manufacturing plants, storage  yards, warehouses, and similar facilities.  (A) A distribution center, manufacturing plant, storage  yard, warehouse, or similar facility operated by a seller for the  purpose of selling taxable items where sales personnel of the seller  receive three or more orders for taxable items during the calendar  year from persons other than employees, independent contractors, and  natural persons affiliated with the seller is a place of business  of the seller.  (B) If a location that is a place of business of the  seller, such as a sales office, is in the same building as a distribution  center, manufacturing plant, storage yard, warehouse, or similar facility  operated by a seller, then the entire facility is a place of business  of the seller.  (2) Kiosks. A kiosk is not a place of business of the  seller for the purpose of determining where a sale is consummated  for local tax purposes. A seller who owns or operates a kiosk in Texas  is, however, engaged in business in this state as provided in §3.286  of this title.  (3) Purchasing offices.  (A) A purchasing office is not a place of business  of the seller if the purchasing office exists solely to rebate a portion  of the local sales and use tax imposed by Tax Code, Chapters 321,  322, or 323 to a business with which it contracts; or if the purchasing  office functions or exists to avoid the tax legally due under Tax  Code, Chapters 321, 322, or 323. A purchasing office does not exist  solely to rebate a portion of the local sales and use tax or to avoid  the tax legally due under Tax Code, Chapters 321, 322, or 323 if the  purchasing office provides significant business services to the contracting  business beyond processing invoices, including logistics management,  purchasing, inventory control, or other vital business services.  (B) In making a determination under subparagraph (A)  of this paragraph, as to whether a purchasing office provides significant  business services to the contracting business beyond processing invoices,  the comptroller will compare the total value of the other business  services to the value of processing invoices. If the total value of  the other business services, including logistics management, purchasing,  inventory control, or other vital business services, is less than  the value of the service to process invoices, then the purchasing  office will be presumed not to be a place of business of the seller.  (C) If the comptroller determines that a purchasing  office is not a place of business of the seller, the sale of any taxable  item is deemed to be consummated at the place of business of the seller  from whom the purchasing office purchased the taxable item for resale  and local sales and use taxes are due according to the following rules.  (i) When taxable items are purchased from a Texas seller,  local sales taxes are due based on the location of the seller's place  of business where the sale is deemed to be consummated, as determined  in accordance with subsection (c) of this section.  "", '(ii) When the sale of a taxable item is deemed to be  consummated at a location outside of this state, local use tax is  due based on the location where the items are first stored, used or  consumed by the entity that contracted with the purchasing office  in accordance with subsection (d) of this section.  (4) Orders received by sales personnel who are not  at a place of business of the seller in Texas when they receive the  order, including orders received by mail, telephone, including Voice  over Internet Protocol and cellular phone calls, facsimile, and email.  This type of order is treated as being received at the location from  which the salesperson operates, that is, the principal fixed location  where the salesperson conducts work-related activities. The location  from which a salesperson operates will be a place of business of the  seller only if the location meets the definition of a ""place of business  of a seller"" in subsection (a)(16) of this section on its own, without  regard to the orders imputed to that location by this paragraph. Orders  received prior to October 1, 2021, may also be treated as being received  at the outlet, office, or location operated by the seller that serves  as a base of operations or that provides administrative support to  the salesperson, and these locations will be treated as places of  business of the seller for purposes of subsection (c) of this section.  (5) Orders not received by sales personnel, including  orders received by a shopping website or shopping software application.  Effective October 1, 2021, these orders are received at locations  that are not places of business of the seller.  (c) Local sales tax - Consummation of sale - determining  the local taxing jurisdictions to which sales tax is due. Except for  the special rules applicable to remote sellers in subsection (i)(3)  of this section, direct payment permit purchases in subsection (j)  of this section, and certain taxable items, including taxable items  sold by a marketplace provider, as provided in subsection (k) of this  section, each sale of a taxable item is consummated at the location  indicated by the provisions of this subsection. The following rules,  taken from Tax Code, §321.203 and §323.203, apply to all  sellers engaged in business in this state, regardless of whether they  have no place of business in Texas, a single place of business in  Texas, or multiple places of business in the state.  (1) Consummation of sale - order received at a place  of business of the seller in Texas.  (A) Order placed in person. Except as provided by paragraph  (3) of this subsection, when an order for a taxable item is placed  in person at a seller\'s place of business in Texas, including at a  temporary place of business of the seller in Texas, the sale of that  item is consummated at that place of business of the seller, regardless  of the location where the order is fulfilled.  (B) Order not placed in person.  (i) Order fulfilled at a place of business of the seller  in Texas. When an order is received at a place of business of the  seller in Texas and is fulfilled at a place of business of the seller  in Texas, the sale is consummated at the place of business where the  order is fulfilled.  (ii) Order not fulfilled at a place of business of  the seller in Texas. When an order is received at a place of business  of the seller in Texas and is fulfilled at a location that is not  a place of business of the seller in Texas, the sale is consummated  at the place of business where the order is received.  (2) Consummation of sale - order not received at a  place of business of the seller in Texas.  (A) Order fulfilled at a place of business of the seller  in Texas. When an order is received at a location that is not a place  of business of the seller in Texas or is received outside of Texas,  and is fulfilled from a place of business of the seller in Texas,  the sale is consummated at the place of business where the order is  fulfilled.  (B) Order not fulfilled from a place of business of  the seller in Texas.  (i) Order fulfilled in Texas. When an order is received  at a location that is not a place of business of the seller in Texas  and is fulfilled from a location in Texas that is not a place of business  of the seller, the sale is consummated at the location in Texas to  which the order is shipped or delivered, or at which the purchaser  of the item takes possession.  (ii) Order not fulfilled in Texas. When an order is  received by a seller at a location outside of Texas or by a remote  seller, and is fulfilled from a location outside of Texas, the sale  is not consummated in Texas. However, local use tax is due based upon  the location in this state to which the item is shipped or delivered  or at which the purchaser of the item takes possession as provided  in subsection (d) of this section. Except as provided in subsection  (i)(3) of this section, a remote seller required to collect state  use tax under §3.286(b)(2) of this title must also collect local  use tax based on the location to which the item is shipped or delivered  or at which the purchaser of the item takes possession.  (3) Exception for qualifying economic development agreements  entered into before January 1, 2009, pursuant to Tax Code, §321.203(c-4)  - (c-5) or §323.203(c-4) - (c-5). This paragraph is effective  until September 1, 2024. If applicable, the local sales tax due on  the sale of a taxable item is based on the location of the qualifying  warehouse, which is a place of business of the seller, from which  the item is shipped or delivered or at which the purchaser of the  item takes possession.  (4) Local sales taxes are due to each local taxing  jurisdiction with sales tax in effect where the sale is consummated.  Local use tax may also be due if the total amount of local sales taxes  due does not reach the two percent cap, and the item purchased is  shipped or delivered to a location in one or more different local  taxing jurisdictions, as provided in subsection (d) of this section.  (5) Multiple special purpose district taxes, multiple  transit authority sales taxes, or a combination of the two may apply  to a single transaction. If the sale of a taxable item is consummated  at a location within the boundaries of multiple special purpose districts  or transit authorities, local sales tax is owed to each of the jurisdictions  in effect at that location. For example, a place of business of the  seller located in the city of San Antonio is within the boundaries  of both the San Antonio Advanced Transportation District and the San  Antonio Metropolitan Transit Authority, and the seller is required  to collect sales tax for both transit authorities. Similarly, a place  of business of the seller in Flower Mound is located within the boundaries  of two special purpose districts, the Flower Mound Crime Control District  and the Flower Mound Fire Control District, and the seller is responsible  for collecting sales tax for both special purpose districts.  (6) Itinerant vendors; vending machines.  (A) Itinerant vendors. Sales made by itinerant vendors  are consummated at, and itinerant vendors must collect sales tax based  upon, the location where the item is delivered or at which the purchaser  of the item takes possession. Itinerant vendors do not have any responsibility  to collect use tax.  (B) Vending machines. Sales of taxable items made from  a vending machine are consummated at the location of the vending machine.  See §3.293 of this title (relating to Food; Food Products; Meals;  Food Service) for more information about vending machine sales.  (d) Local use tax. The provisions addressing the imposition  of state use tax in §3.346 of this title also apply to the imposition  of local use tax. For example, consistent with §3.346(e) of this  title, all taxable items that are shipped or delivered to a location  in this state that is within the boundaries of a local taxing jurisdiction  are presumed to have been purchased for use in that local taxing jurisdiction  as well as presumed to have been purchased for use in the state.  (1) General rules.  (A) When local use taxes are due in addition to local  sales taxes as provided by subsection (c) of this section, all applicable  use taxes must be collected or accrued in the following order until  the two percent cap is reached: city, county, special purpose district,  and transit authority. If more than one special purpose district use  tax is due, all such taxes are to be collected or accrued before any  transit authority use tax is collected or accrued. See subparagraphs  (D) and (E) of this paragraph.  (B) If a local use tax cannot be collected or accrued  at its full rate without exceeding the two percent cap, the seller  cannot collect it, or any portion of it, and the purchaser is not  responsible for accruing it.  (C) If a seller collects a local sales tax on an item,  or a purchaser accrues a local sales tax on an item, a use tax for  the same type of jurisdiction is not due on the same item. For example,  after a city sales tax has been collected or accrued for an item,  no use tax is due to that same or a different city on that item, but  use tax may be due to a county, special purpose district, or transit  authority. Similarly, if one or more special purpose district sales  taxes have been collected or accrued for an item, no special purpose  district use tax is due on that item, and if one or more transit authority  sales taxes have been collected or accrued for an item, no transit  authority use tax is due on that item.  (D) Collection or accrual of use tax for multiple special  purpose districts. If more than one special purpose district use tax  is in effect at the location where use of an item occurs, the special  purpose district taxes are due in the order of their effective dates,  beginning with the earliest effective date, until the two percent  cap is met. The effective dates of all special purpose district taxes  are available on the comptroller\'s website. However, if the collection  or accrual of use tax for the district with the earliest effective  date would exceed the two percent cap, the tax for that district is  not due and the seller or purchaser should determine, following the  criteria in subparagraphs (A) - (C) of this paragraph, whether use  tax is due for the district that next became effective.  (i) If the competing special purpose district taxes  became effective on the same date, the special purpose district taxes  are due in the order of the earliest date for which the election in  which the district residents authorized the imposition of sales and  use tax by the district was held.  (ii) If the elections to impose the local taxes were  held on the same date, the special purpose district taxes are due  in the order of the earliest date for which the enabling legislation  under which each district was created became effective.  (E) Collection or accrual of use tax for multiple transit  authorities. If more than one transit authority use tax is in effect  at the location where use of an item occurs, and the two percent cap  has not been met, the transit authority taxes are due in the order  of their effective dates, beginning with the earliest effective date,  until the two percent cap is met. The effective dates of all transit  authority taxes are available on the comptroller\'s website. However,  if the collection or accrual of use tax for the authority with the  earliest effective date would exceed the two percent cap, the tax  for that authority is not due and the seller or purchaser should determine,  following the criteria in subparagraphs (A) - (D) of this paragraph,  whether use tax is due for the authority that next became effective.  (i) If the competing transit authorities became effective  on the same date, the transit authority taxes are due in the order  of the earliest date for which the election in which the authority  residents authorized the imposition of sales and use tax by the authority  was held.  (ii) If the elections to impose local taxes were held  on the same date, the transit authority use taxes are due in the order  of the earliest date for which the enabling legislation under which  each authority was created became effective.  (2) General use tax rules applied to specific situations.  The following fact patterns explain how local use tax is to be collected  or accrued and remitted to the comptroller based on, and subject to,  the general rules in paragraph (1) of this subsection.  (A) Sale consummated outside the state, item delivered  from outside the state or from a location in Texas that is not operated  by the seller - local use tax due. Except as provided in subsection  (i)(3) of this section, if a sale is consummated outside of this state  according to the provisions of subsection (c) of this section, and  the item purchased is either shipped or delivered to a location in  this state as designated by the purchaser from a location outside  of the state, or if the order is drop shipped directly to the purchaser  from a third-party supplier, local use tax is owed based upon the  location in this state to which the order is shipped or delivered  or at which the purchaser of the item takes possession. The seller  is responsible for collecting the local use tax due on the sale. If  the seller does not collect the local use taxes due on the sale, the  purchaser is responsible for accruing such taxes and remitting them  directly to the comptroller according to the provisions in paragraph  (1) of this subsection. For example, if an order for a taxable item  is received by a seller at a location outside of Texas, and the order  is shipped to the purchaser from a location outside of the state,  local use tax is due based upon the location to which the order is  shipped or delivered or at which the purchaser of the item takes possession.  Cont\'d...', '(B) Sale consummated in Texas outside a local taxing  jurisdiction, item delivered into one or more local taxing jurisdictions  - local use tax due. If a sale is consummated at a location in Texas  that is outside of the boundaries of any local taxing jurisdiction  according to the provisions of subsection (c) of this section, and  the order is shipped or delivered to the purchaser at a location in  this state that is within the boundaries of one or more local taxing  jurisdictions, local use tax is due based on the location to which  the items are shipped or delivered or at which the purchaser of the  item takes possession. The seller is responsible for collecting the  local use taxes due on the sale, regardless of the location of the  seller in Texas. If the seller fails to collect any local use taxes  due, the purchaser is responsible for accruing such taxes and remitting  them directly to the comptroller.  (C) Sale consummated in any local taxing jurisdictions  imposing less than 2.0% in total local taxes - local sales taxes and  use taxes due. If a sale is consummated at a location in Texas where  the total local sales tax rate imposed by the taxing jurisdictions  in effect at that location does not equal 2.0% according to the provisions  of subsection (c) of this section, and the item is shipped or delivered  to the purchaser at a location in this state that is inside the boundaries  of a different local taxing jurisdiction, additional local use tax  may be due based on the location to which the order is shipped or  delivered or at which the purchaser of the item takes possession,  subject to the two percent cap. The seller is responsible for collecting  any additional local use taxes due on the sale, regardless of the  location of the seller in Texas. See subsection (i) of this section.  If the seller fails to collect the additional local use taxes due,  the purchaser is responsible for accruing such taxes and remitting  them directly to the comptroller.  (i) Example one - if an order is received in person  at a place of business of the seller, such that the sale is consummated  at the location where the order is received as provided under subsection  (c)(1)(A) of this section, and the local sales tax due on the sale  does not meet the two percent cap, additional local use taxes are  due based on the location to which the order is shipped or delivered  or at which the purchaser of the item takes possession, subject to  the provisions in paragraph (1) of this subsection.  (ii) Example two - if a seller receives an order for  a taxable item at a seller\'s place of business in Texas, and the seller  ships or delivers the item from an out-of-state location to a location  in this state as designated by the purchaser, local sales tax is due  based upon the location of the place of business of the seller where  the order is received. If the local sales tax due on the item does  not meet the two percent cap, use taxes, subject to the provisions  in paragraph (1) of this subsection, are due based upon the location  where the items are shipped or delivered or at which the purchaser  of the item takes possession.  (e) Effect of other law.  (1) Tax Code, Title 2, Subtitles A (General Provisions)  and B (Enforcement and Collection), Tax Code, Chapter 141 (Multistate  Tax Compact) and Tax Code, Chapter 151 (Limited Sales, Excise, and  Use Tax) apply to transactions involving local taxes. Related sections  of this title and comptroller rulings shall also apply with respect  to local taxes. This includes authorities such as court cases and  federal law that affect whether an item is taxable or is excluded  or exempt from taxation.  (2) Permits, exemption certificates, and resale certificates  required by Tax Code, Chapter 151, shall also satisfy the requirements  for collecting and remitting local taxes, unless otherwise indicated  by this section or other sections of this title. For example, see  subsection (n) of this section concerning prior contract exemptions.  (3) Any provisions in this section or other sections  of this title related to a seller\'s responsibilities for collecting  and remitting local taxes to the comptroller shall also apply to a  purchaser if the seller does not collect local taxes that are due.  The comptroller may proceed against the seller or purchaser for the  local tax owed by either.  (f) Tax rates. Except as otherwise provided by law,  no local governmental entity may adopt or increase a sales and use  tax if, as a result of the adoption or increase of the tax, the combined  rate of all sales and use taxes imposed by local taxing jurisdictions  having territory in the local governmental entity would exceed 2.0%  at any location within the boundaries of the local governmental entity\'s  jurisdiction. The following are the local tax rates that may be adopted.  (1) Cities. Cities may impose sales and use tax at  a rate of up to 2.0%.  (2) Counties. Counties may impose sales and use tax  at rates ranging from 0.5% to 1.5%.  (3) Special purpose districts. Special purpose districts  may impose sales and use tax at rates ranging from 0.125% to 2.0%.  (4) Transit authorities. Transit authorities may impose  sales and use tax at rates ranging from 0.25% to 1.0%.  (g) Jurisdictional boundaries, combined areas, and  city tax imposed through strategic partnership agreements.  (1) Jurisdictional boundaries.  (A) City boundaries. City taxing jurisdictional boundaries  cannot overlap one another and a city cannot impose a sales and use  tax in an area that is already within the jurisdiction of another  city.  (B) County boundaries. County tax applies to all locations  within that county.  (C) Special purpose district and transit authority  boundaries. Special purpose districts and transit authorities may  cross or share boundaries with other local taxing jurisdictions and  may encompass, in whole or in part, other local taxing jurisdictions,  including cities and counties. A geographic location or address in  this state may lie within the boundaries of more than one special  purpose district or more than one transit authority.  (D) Extraterritorial jurisdictions. Except as otherwise  provided by paragraph (3) of this subsection concerning strategic  partnership agreements and subsection (l)(5) of this section concerning  the City of El Paso and Fort Bliss, city sales and use tax does not  apply to taxable sales that are consummated outside the boundaries  of the city, including sales made in a city\'s extraterritorial jurisdiction.  However, an extraterritorial jurisdiction may lie within the boundaries  of a special purpose district, transit authority, county, or any combination  of the three, and the sales and use taxes for those jurisdictions  would apply to those sales.  (2) Combined areas. A combined area is an area where  the boundaries of a city overlap the boundaries of one or more other  local taxing jurisdictions as a result of an annexation of additional  territory by the city, and where, as the result of the imposition  of the city tax in the area in addition to the local taxes imposed  by the existing taxing jurisdictions, the combined local tax rate  would exceed 2.0%. The comptroller shall make accommodations to maintain  a 2.0% rate in any combined area by distributing the 2.0% tax revenue  generated in these combined areas to the local taxing jurisdictions  located in the combined areas as provided in Tax Code, §321.102  or Health and Safety Code, §775.0754. Combined areas are identified  on the comptroller\'s website. Sellers engaged in transactions on which  local sales or use taxes are due in a combined area, or persons who  must self-accrue and remit tax directly to the comptroller, must use  the combined area local code when reporting the tax rather than the  codes for the individual city, county, special purpose districts,  or transit authorities that make up the combined area.  (3) City tax imposed through strategic partnership  agreements.  (A) The governing bodies of a district, as defined  in Local Government Code, §43.0751, and a city may enter into  a limited-purpose annexation agreement known as a strategic partnership  agreement. Under this agreement, the city may impose sales and use  tax within all or part of the boundaries of a district. Areas within  a district that are annexed for this limited purpose are treated as  though they are within the boundaries of the city for purposes of  city sales and use tax.  (B) Counties, transit authorities, and special purpose  districts may not enter into strategic partnership agreements. Sales  and use taxes imposed by those taxing jurisdictions do not apply in  the limited-purpose annexed area as part of a strategic partnership  agreement between a city and an authorized district. However, a county,  special purpose district, or transit authority sales and use tax,  or any combination of these three types of taxes, may apply at locations  included in a strategic partnership agreement between a city and an  authorized district if the tax is imposed in that area by the applicable  jurisdiction as allowed under its own controlling authorities.  (C) Prior to September 1, 2011, the term ""district""  was defined in Local Government Code, §43.0751 as a municipal  utility district or a water control and improvement district. The  definition was amended effective September 1, 2011, to mean a conservation  and reclamation district operating under Water Code, Chapter 49.  (h) Places of business of the seller and job sites  crossed by local taxing jurisdiction boundaries.  (1) Places of business of the seller crossed by local  taxing jurisdiction boundaries. If a place of business of the seller  is crossed by one or more local taxing jurisdiction boundaries so  that a portion of the place of business of the seller is located within  a taxing jurisdiction and the remainder of the place of business of  the seller lies outside of the taxing jurisdiction, tax is due to  the local taxing jurisdictions in which the sales office is located.  If there is no sales office, sales tax is due to the local taxing  jurisdictions in which any cash registers are located.  (2) Job sites.  (A) Residential repair and remodeling; new construction  of an improvement to realty. When a contractor is improving real property  under a separated contract, and the job site is crossed by the boundaries  of one or more local taxing jurisdictions, the local taxes due on  any separately stated charges for taxable items incorporated into  the real property must be allocated to the local taxing jurisdictions  based on the total square footage of the real property improvement  located within each jurisdiction, including the square footage of  any standalone structures that are part of the construction, repair,  or remodeling project. For more information about tax due on materials  used at residential and new construction job sites, refer to §3.291  of this title (relating to Contractors).  (B) Nonresidential real property repair and improvement.  When taxable services are performed to repair, remodel, or restore  nonresidential real property, including a pipeline, transmission line,  or parking lot, that is crossed by the boundaries of one or more local  taxing jurisdictions, the local taxes due on the taxable services,  including materials and any other charges connected to the services  performed, must be allocated among the local taxing jurisdictions  based upon the total mileage or square footage, as appropriate, of  the repair, remodeling, or restoration project located in each jurisdiction.  For more information about tax due on materials used at nonresidential  real property repair and remodeling job sites, refer to §3.357  of this title (relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling,  and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance).  (i) Sellers\' and purchasers\' responsibilities for collecting  or accruing local taxes.  (1) Sale consummated in Texas; seller responsible for  collecting local sales taxes and applicable local use taxes. When  a sale of a taxable item is consummated at a location in Texas as  provided by subsection (c) of this section, the seller must collect  each local sales tax in effect at the location. If the total rate  of local sales tax due on the sale does not reach the two percent  cap, and the seller ships or delivers the item into another local  taxing jurisdiction, then the seller is required to collect additional  local use taxes due, if any, based on the location to which the item  is shipped or delivered or at which the purchaser of the item takes  possession, regardless of the location of the seller in Texas. For  more information regarding local use taxes, refer to subsection (d)  of this section.  (2) Out-of-state sale; seller engaged in business in  Texas. Except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection, when  a sale is not consummated in Texas, a seller who is engaged in business  in this state is required to collect and remit local use taxes due,  if any, on orders of taxable items shipped or delivered at the direction  of the purchaser into a local taxing jurisdiction in this state based  upon the location in this state to which the item is shipped or delivered  or at which the purchaser of the item takes possession as provided  in subsection (d) of this section.  (3) Local use tax rate for remote sellers.  (A) A remote seller required to collect and remit one  or more local use taxes in connection with a sale of a taxable item  must compute the amount using:  (i) the combined tax rate of all applicable local use  taxes based on the location to which the item is shipped or delivered  or at which the purchaser of the item takes possession; or  Cont\'d...', ""(ii) at the remote seller's election, the single local  use tax rate published in the Texas Register. (B) A remote seller that is storing tangible personal  property in Texas to be used for fulfillment at a facility of a marketplace  provider that has certified that it will assume the rights and duties  of a seller with respect to the tangible personal property, as provided  for in §3.286 of this title, may elect the single local use tax  rate under subparagraph (A)(ii) of this paragraph.  (C) Notice to the comptroller of election and revocation  of election.  (i) Before using the single local use tax rate, a remote  seller must notify the comptroller of its election using a form prescribed  by the comptroller. A remote seller may also notify the comptroller  of the election on its use tax permit application form. The remote  seller must use the single local use tax rate for all of its sales  of taxable items until the election is revoked as provided in clause  (ii) of this subparagraph.  (ii) A remote seller may revoke its election by filing  a form prescribed by the comptroller. If the comptroller receives  the notice by October 1, the revocation will be effective January  1 of the following year. If the comptroller receives the notice after  October 1, the revocation will be effective January 1 of the year  after the following year. For example, a remote seller must notify  the comptroller by October 1, 2020, for the revocation to be effective  January 1, 2021. If the comptroller receives the revocation on November  1, 2020, the revocation will be effective January 1, 2022.  (D) Single local use tax rate.  (i) The single local use tax rate in effect for the  period beginning October 1, 2019, and ending December 31, 2019, is  1.75%.  (ii) The single local use tax rate in effect for the  period beginning January 1, 2020, and ending December 31, 2020, is  1.75%.  (E) Annual publication of single local use tax rate.  Before the beginning of a calendar year, the comptroller will publish  notice of the single local use tax rate in the Texas  Register that will be in effect for that calendar year.  (F) Calculating the single local use tax rate. The  single local use tax rate effective in a calendar year is equal to  the estimated average rate of local sales and use taxes imposed in  this state during the preceding state fiscal year. As soon as practicable  after the end of a state fiscal year, the comptroller must determine  the estimated average rate of local sales and use taxes imposed in  this state during the preceding state fiscal year by:  (i) dividing the total amount of net local sales and  use taxes remitted to the comptroller during the state fiscal year  by the total amount of net state sales and use tax remitted to the  comptroller during the state fiscal year;  (ii) multiplying the amount computed under clause (i)  of this subparagraph by the rate provided in Tax Code, §151.051;  and  (iii) rounding the amount computed under clause (ii)  of this subparagraph to the nearest .0025.  (G) Direct refund. A purchaser may request a refund  based on local use taxes paid in a calendar year for the difference  between the single local use tax rate paid by the purchaser and the  amount the purchaser would have paid based on the combined tax rate  for all applicable local use taxes. Notwithstanding the refund requirements  under §3.325(a)(1) of this title (relating to Refunds and Payments  Under Protest), a non-permitted purchaser may request a refund directly  from the comptroller for the tax paid in the previous calendar year,  no earlier than January 1 of the following calendar year within the  statute of limitation under Tax Code, 111.104 (Refunds).  (H) Marketplace providers. Notwithstanding subparagraph  (A) of this paragraph, marketplace providers may not use the single  local use tax rate and must compute the amount of local use tax to  collect and remit using the combined tax rate of all applicable local  use taxes.  (4) Purchaser responsible for accruing and remitting  local taxes if seller fails to collect.  (A) If a seller does not collect the state sales tax,  any applicable local sales taxes, or both, on a sale of a taxable  item that is consummated in Texas, then the purchaser is responsible  for filing a return and paying the tax. The local sales taxes due  are based on the location in this state where the sale is consummated  as provided in subsection (c) of this section.  (B) A purchaser who buys an item for use in Texas from  a seller who does not collect the state use tax, any applicable local  use taxes, or both, is responsible for filing a return and paying  the tax. The local use taxes due are based on the location where the  item is first stored, used, or consumed by the purchaser.  (C) For more information about how to report and pay  use tax directly to the comptroller, see §3.286 of this title.  (5) Local tax is due on the sales price of a taxable  item, as defined in Tax Code, §151.007, in the report period  in which the taxable item is purchased or the period in which the  taxable item is first stored, used, or otherwise consumed in a local  taxing jurisdiction.  (6) A purchaser is not liable for additional local  use tax if the purchaser pays local use tax using the rate elected  by an eligible remote seller according to paragraph (3) of this subsection.  The remote seller must be identified on the comptroller's website  as electing to use the single local use tax rate. A purchaser must  verify that the remote seller is listed on the comptroller's website.  If the remote seller is not listed on the comptroller's website, the  purchaser will be liable for additional use tax due in accordance  to paragraph (4) of this subsection.  (j) Items purchased under a direct payment permit.  (1) When taxable items are purchased under a direct  payment permit, local use tax is due based upon the location where  the permit holder first stores the taxable items, except that if the  taxable items are not stored, then local use tax is due based upon  the location where the taxable items are first used or otherwise consumed  by the permit holder.  (2) If, in a local taxing jurisdiction, storage facilities  contain taxable items purchased under a direct payment exemption certificate  and at the time of storage it is not known whether the taxable items  will be used in Texas, then the taxpayer may elect to report the use  tax either when the taxable items are first stored in Texas or are  first removed from inventory for use in Texas, as long as use tax  is reported in a consistent manner. See also §3.288(i) of this  title (relating to Direct Payment Procedures and Qualifications) and §3.346(g)  of this title.  (3) If local use tax is paid on stored items that are  subsequently removed from Texas before they are used, the tax may  be recovered in accordance with the refund and credit provisions of §3.325  of this title and §3.338 of this title (relating to Multistate  Tax Credits and Allowance of Credit for Tax Paid to Suppliers).  (k) Special rules for certain taxable goods and services.  Sales of the following taxable goods and services are consummated  at, and local tax is due based upon, the location indicated in this  subsection.  (1) Amusement services. Local tax is due based upon  the location where the performance or event occurs. For more information  on amusement services, refer to §3.298 of this title (relating  to Amusement Services).  (2) Cable services. When a service provider uses a  cable system to provide cable television or bundled cable services  to customers, local tax is due as provided for in §3.313 of this  title. When a service provider uses a satellite system to provide  cable services to customers, no local tax is due on the service in  accordance with the Telecommunications Act of 1996, §602.  (3) Florists. Local sales tax is due on all taxable  items sold by a florist based upon the location where the order is  received, regardless of where or by whom delivery is made. Local use  tax is not due on deliveries of taxable items sold by florists. For  example, if the place of business of the florist where an order is  taken is not within the boundaries of any local taxing jurisdiction,  no local sales tax is due on the item and no local use tax is due  regardless of the location of delivery. If a Texas florist delivers  an order in a local taxing jurisdiction at the instruction of an unrelated  florist, and if the unrelated florist did not take the order within  the boundaries of a local taxing jurisdiction, local use tax is not  due on the delivery. For more information about florists' sales and  use tax obligations, refer to §3.307 of this title (relating  to Florists).  (4) Landline telecommunications services. Local taxes  due on landline telecommunications services are based upon the location  of the device from which the call or other transmission originates.  If the seller cannot determine where the call or transmission originates,  local taxes due are based on the address to which the service is billed.  For more information, refer to §3.344 of this title (relating  to Telecommunications Services).  (5) Marketplace provider sales. Local taxes are due  on sales of taxable items through a marketplace provider based on  the location in this state to which the item is shipped or delivered  or at which the purchaser takes possession. For more information,  refer to §3.286 of this title.  (6) Mobile telecommunications services. Local taxes  due on mobile telecommunications services are based upon the location  of the customer's place of primary use as defined in §3.344(a)(8)  of this title, and local taxes are to be collected as indicated in §3.344(h)  of this title.  (7) Motor vehicle parking and storage. Local taxes  are due based on the location of the space or facility where the vehicle  is parked. For more information, refer to §3.315 of this title  (relating to Motor Vehicle Parking and Storage).  (8) Natural gas and electricity. Any local city and  special purpose taxes due are based upon the location where the natural  gas or electricity is delivered to the purchaser. As explained in  subsection (l)(1) of this section, residential use of natural gas  and electricity is exempt from all county sales and use taxes and  all transit authority sales and use taxes, most special purpose district  sales and use taxes, and many city sales and use taxes. A list of  the cities and special purpose districts that do impose, and those  that are eligible to impose, local sales and use tax on residential  use of natural gas and electricity is available on the comptroller's  website. For more information, also refer to §3.295 of this title  (relating to Natural Gas and Electricity).  (9) Nonresidential real property repair and remodeling  services. Local taxes are due on services to remodel, repair, or restore  nonresidential real property based on the location of the job site  where the remodeling, repair, or restoration is performed. See also  subsection (h)(2)(B) of this section and §3.357 of this title.  (10) Residential real property repair and remodeling  and new construction of a real property improvement performed under  a separated contract. When a contractor constructs a new improvement  to realty pursuant to a separated contract or improves residential  real property pursuant to a separated contract, the sale is consummated  at the job site at which the contractor incorporates taxable items  into the customer's real property. See also subsection (h)(2)(A) of  this section and §3.291 of this title.  (11) Waste collection services. Local taxes are due  on garbage or other solid waste collection or removal services based  on the location at which the waste is collected or from which the  waste is removed. For more information, refer to §3.356 of this  title (relating to Real Property Service).  (l) Special exemptions and provisions applicable to  individual jurisdictions.  (1) Residential use of natural gas and electricity.  (A) Mandatory exemptions from local sales and use tax.  Residential use of natural gas and electricity is exempt from most  local sales and use taxes. Counties, transit authorities, and most  special purpose districts are not authorized to impose sales and use  tax on the residential use of natural gas and electricity. Pursuant  to Tax Code, §321.105, any city that adopted a local sales and  use tax effective October 1, 1979, or later is prohibited from imposing  tax on the residential use of natural gas and electricity. See §3.295  of this title.  (B) Imposition of tax allowed in certain cities. Cities  that adopted local sales tax prior to October 1, 1979, may, in accordance  with the provisions in Tax Code, §321.105, choose to repeal the  exemption for residential use of natural gas and electricity. The  comptroller's website provides a list of cities that impose tax on  the residential use of natural gas and electricity, as well as a list  of those cities that do not currently impose the tax, but are eligible  to do so.  (C) Effective January 1, 2010, a fire control, prevention,  and emergency medical services district organized under Local Government  Code, Chapter 344 that imposes sales tax under Tax Code, §321.106,  or a crime control and prevention district organized under Local Government  Code, Chapter 363 that imposes sales tax under Tax Code, §321.108,  that is located in all or part of a municipality that imposes a tax  on the residential use of natural gas and electricity as provided  under Tax Code, §321.105 may impose tax on residential use of  natural gas and electricity at locations within the district. A list  of the special purpose "", ""districts that impose tax on residential use  of natural gas and electricity and those districts eligible to impose  the tax that do not currently do so is available on the comptroller's  website.  (2) Telecommunication services. Telecommunications  services are exempt from all local sales taxes unless the governing  body of a city, county, transit authority, or special purpose district  votes to impose sales tax on these services. However, since 1999,  under Tax Code, §322.109(d), transit authorities created under  Transportation Code, Chapter 451 cannot repeal the exemption unless  the repeal is first approved by the governing body of each city that  created the local taxing jurisdiction. The local sales tax is limited  to telecommunications services occurring between locations within  Texas. See §3.344 of this title. The comptroller's website provides  a list of local taxing jurisdictions that impose tax on telecommunications  services.  (3) Emergency services districts.  (A) Authority to exclude territory from imposition  of emergency services district sales and use tax. Pursuant to the  provisions of Health and Safety Code, §775.0751(c-1), an emergency  services district wishing to enact a sales and use tax may exclude  from the election called to authorize the tax any territory in the  district where the sales and use tax is then at 2.0%. The tax, if  authorized by the voters eligible to vote on the enactment of the  tax, then applies only in the portions of the district included in  the election. The tax does not apply to sales made in the excluded  territories in the district and sellers in the excluded territories  should continue to collect local sales and use taxes for the local  taxing jurisdictions in effect at the time of the election under which  the district sales and use tax was authorized as applicable.  (B) Consolidation of districts resulting in sales tax  sub-districts. Pursuant to the provisions of Health and Safety Code, §775.018(f),  if the territory of a district proposed under Health and Safety Code,  Chapter 775 overlaps with the boundaries of another district created  under that chapter, the commissioners court of each county and boards  of the counties in which the districts are located may choose to create  a consolidated district in the overlapping territory. If two districts  that want to consolidate under Health and Safety Code, §775.024  have different sales and use tax rates, the territory of the former  districts located within the consolidated area will be designated  as sub-districts and the sales tax rate within each sub-district will  continue to be imposed at the rate the tax was imposed by the former  district that each sub-district was part of prior to the consolidation.  (4) East Aldine Management District.  (A) Special sales and use tax zones within district;  separate sales and use tax rate. As set out in Special District Local  Laws Code, §3817.154(e) and (f), the East Aldine Management District  board may create special sales and use tax zones within the boundaries  of the District and, with voter approval, enact a special sales and  use tax rate in each zone that is different from the sales and use  tax rate imposed in the rest of the district.  (B) Exemptions from special zone sales and use tax.  The sale, production, distribution, lease, or rental of; and the use,  storage, or other consumption within a special sales and use tax zone  of; a taxable item sold, leased, or rented by the entities identified  in clauses (i) - (vi) of this subparagraph are exempt from the special  zone sales and use tax. State and all other applicable local taxes  apply unless otherwise exempted by law. The special zone sales and  use tax exemption applies to:  (i) a retail electric provider as defined by Utilities  Code, §31.002;  (ii) an electric utility or a power generation company  as defined by Utilities Code, §31.002;  (iii) a gas utility as defined by Utilities Code, §101.003  or §121.001, or a person who owns pipelines used for transportation  or sale of oil or gas or a product or constituent of oil or gas;  (iv) a person who owns pipelines used for the transportation  or sale of carbon dioxide;  (v) a telecommunications provider as defined by Utilities  Code, §51.002; or  (vi) a cable service provider or video service provider  as defined by Utilities Code, §66.002.  (5) Imposition of city sales tax and transit tax on  certain military installations; El Paso and Fort Bliss. Pursuant to  Tax Code, §321.1045 (Imposition of Sales and Use Tax in Certain  Federal Military Installations), for purposes of the local sales and  use tax imposed under Tax Code, Chapter 321, the city of El Paso includes  the area within the boundaries of Fort Bliss to the extent it is in  the city's extraterritorial jurisdiction. However, the El Paso transit  authority does not include Fort Bliss. See Transportation Code, §453.051  concerning the Creation of Transit Departments.  (m) Restrictions on local sales tax rebates and other  economic incentives. Pursuant to Local Government Code, §501.161,  Section 4A and 4B development corporations may not offer to provide  economic incentives, such as local sales tax rebates authorized under  Local Government Code, Chapters 380 or 381, to persons whose business  consists primarily of purchasing taxable items using resale certificates  and then reselling those same items to a related party. A related  party means a person or entity which owns at least 80% of the business  enterprise to which sales and use taxes would be rebated as part of  an economic incentive.  (n) Prior contract exemptions. The provisions of §3.319  of this title (relating to Prior Contracts) concerning definitions  and exclusions apply to prior contract exemptions.  (1) Certain contracts and bids exempt. No local taxes  are due on the sale, use, storage, or other consumption in this state  of taxable items used:  (A) for the performance of a written contract executed  prior to the effective date of any local tax if the contract may not  be modified because of the tax; or  (B) pursuant to the obligation of a bid or bids submitted  prior to the effective date of any local tax if the bid or bids and  contract entered into pursuant thereto are at a fixed price and not  subject to withdrawal, change, or modification because of the tax.  (2) Annexations. Any annexation of territory into an  existing local taxing jurisdiction is also a basis for claiming the  exemption provided by this subsection.  (3) Local taxing jurisdiction rate increase; partial  exemption for certain contracts and bids. When an existing local taxing  jurisdiction raises its sales and use tax rate, the additional amount  of tax that would be due as a result of the rate increase is not due  on the sale, use, storage, or other consumption in this state of taxable  items used:  (A) for the performance of a written contract executed  prior to the effective date of the tax rate increase if the contract  may not be modified because of the tax; or  (B) pursuant to the obligation of a bid or bids submitted  prior to the effective date of the tax rate increase if the bid or  bids and contract entered into pursuant thereto are at a fixed price  and not subject to withdrawal, change, or modification because of  the tax.  (4) Three-year statute of limitations.  (A) The exemption in paragraph (1) of this subsection  and the partial exemption in paragraph (3) of this subsection have  no effect after three years from the date the adoption or increase  of the tax takes effect in the local taxing jurisdiction.  (B) The provisions of §3.319 of this title apply  to this subsection to the extent they are consistent.  (C) Leases. Any renewal or exercise of an option to  extend the time of a lease or rental contract under the exemptions  provided by this subsection shall be deemed to be a new contract and  no exemption will apply.  (5) Records. Persons claiming the exemption provided  by this subsection must maintain records which can be verified by  the comptroller or the exemption will be lost.  (6) Exemption certificate. An identification number  is required on the prior contract exemption certificates furnished  to sellers. The identification number should be the person's 11-digit  Texas taxpayer number or federal employer's identification (FEI) number."
54|§3.335|Property Used in a Qualifying Data Center or Qualifying Large Data Center Project; Temporary Sales Tax Exemption|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=335|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Capital investment--The amount paid to acquire  capital or fixed assets that are purchased for use in the operation  of a qualifying data center or qualifying large data center projects,  and that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, qualify as Section  179, Section 1245, or Section 1250 property, as those terms are defined  in Internal Revenue Code, §§179(d)(1), 1245(a)(3), and 1250(c),  respectively. Examples include, but are not limited to, land, buildings,  furniture, machinery, and equipment used for the processing, storage,  and distribution of data, and labor used specifically to construct  or refurbish such property. The term does not include:  (A) property purchased before September 1, 2013, for  a qualifying data center;  (B) property purchased before May 1, 2015, for a qualifying  large data center project;  (C) property purchased by a qualifying owner, qualifying  operator, or qualifying occupant from persons or legal entities related  to the purchaser by ownership or common control;  (D) property that is leased under an operating lease;  or  (E) expenditures for routine and planned maintenance  required to maintain regular business operations.  (2) County average weekly wage--The average weekly  wage in a county for all jobs during the most recent four quarterly  periods for which data is available, as computed by the Texas Workforce  Commission, at the time a qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or  qualifying occupant creates a job used to qualify under this section.  (3) Data center--A facility that:  (A) is or will be located in this state;  (B) is or will be specifically constructed or refurbished  for use primarily to house servers, related equipment, and support  staff for the processing, storage, and distribution of data;  (C) will be used by a single qualifying occupant for  the processing, storage, and distribution of data;  (D) will not be used primarily by a telecommunications  provider to house tangible personal property that is used to deliver  telecommunications services; and  (E) has or will have an uninterruptible power source,  generator backup power, a sophisticated fire suppression and prevention  system, and enhanced physical security that includes restricted access,  video surveillance, and electronic systems.  (4) Permanent job--An employment position for which  an Internal Revenue Service Form W-2 must be issued, that will exist  for at least five years after the date the job is created. A permanent  job will be considered to exist for at least five years after the  date the job is created if during the five-year period any vacancy  which occurs is filled within 120 days of the date of vacancy.  (5) Primarily--More than 50% of the time.  (6) Qualifying data center--A data center that the  comptroller certifies as meeting each of the requirements in subsection  (d) of this section.  (7) Qualifying job--  (A) A new, full-time job created by a qualifying owner,  qualifying operator, or qualifying occupant of a qualifying data center  or qualifying large data center project that:  (i) is a permanent job;  (ii) is located in the same county in Texas in which  the associated qualifying data center or qualifying large data center  project is located;  (iii) will provide at least 1,820 hours of employment  a year to a single employee;  (iv) pays at least 120% of the county average weekly  wage, as defined by paragraph (2) of this subsection, for the county  in which the job is located;  (v) is not transferred from one county in Texas to  another county in Texas; and  (vi) is not created to replace a qualifying job that  was previously held by another employee.  (B) The term includes a new employment position staffed  by a third party employer if the employment position meets the requirements  of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph and if a written contract exists  between the third-party employer and a qualifying owner, qualifying  operator, or qualifying occupant that provides that the employment  position is permanently assigned to an associated qualifying data  center or qualifying large data center project.  (8) Qualifying large data center project--A data center  that the comptroller certifies as meeting each of the requirements  in subsection (e) of this section.  (9) Qualifying operator--A person who controls access  to a qualifying data center or qualifying large data center project,  regardless of whether that person owns each item of tangible personal  property located at the qualifying data center or qualifying large  data center project. A qualifying operator may also be the qualifying  owner.  (10) Qualifying owner--A person who owns the building  in which a qualifying data center or qualifying large data center  project is located. A qualifying owner may also be the qualifying  operator.  (11) Qualifying occupant--A person who:  (A) contracts with either a qualifying owner or qualifying  operator to place, or cause to be placed, tangible personal property  at the qualifying data center or qualifying large data center project  for use by the occupant. The qualifying occupant may also be the qualifying  owner or the qualifying operator of the same data center; and  (B) is the sole occupant of the qualifying data center  or qualifying large data center project. A qualifying occupant may  provide data storage and processing services, but may not sublease  to a third party any real or tangible personal property located within  the area of a building designated by the qualifying occupant, qualifying  owner, or qualifying operator as part of the qualifying data center  or qualifying large data center project. For example, a qualifying  occupant may not sell or lease excess servers or server space, including  the provision of dedicated servers, at the qualifying data center  to third parties. If a single occupant leases 150,000 square feet  of space in a building for use as a qualifying data center, that occupant  may not use 100,000 square feet for its own qualifying use and sublease  the remaining 50,000 square feet to a third party, even if the third  party will also use the space as a data center. An occupant may, however,  lease 150,000 square feet of space in a building and, during the certification  process, formally designate 100,000 square feet or more of the space  as the area to be used as its qualifying data center. The occupant  could then sublease the space not designated for use as the qualifying  data center to a third party without causing the qualifying data center  to lose its certification as a qualifying data center. Tangible personal  property purchased for use in the space outside the area designated  for use as a qualifying data center would not qualify for exemption  under this section.  (b) Exemption.  (1) The exemption under this subsection for qualifying  data centers only applies to Texas state sales and use taxes. See  Tax Code, §151.359 (Property Used in Certain Data Centers; Temporary  Exemption). The exemption under this subsection for qualifying large  data center projects applies to Texas state and local sales and use  taxes. See Tax Code, §151.3595 (Property Used in Certain Large  Data Center Projects; Temporary Exemption).  (2) Tangible personal property purchased by a qualifying  owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying occupant for installation  at, incorporation into, or in the case of subparagraph (A) of this  paragraph, use in a qualifying data center or qualifying large data  center project is exempted from the applicable taxes as specified  in paragraph (1) of this subsection if the tangible personal property  is necessary and essential to the operation of the qualifying data  center or qualifying large data center project and is:  (A) electricity. A predominant use study is required  to differentiate between taxable and nontaxable use of electricity  from a single meter unless the qualifying data center or qualifying  large data center project is a stand-alone facility of which the qualifying  occupant is the sole inhabitant. For more information regarding predominant  use studies, refer to §3.295 of this title (relating to Natural  Gas and Electricity). The qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or  qualifying occupant of a stand-alone qualifying data center or qualifying  large data center project is not required to perform a predominant  use study and may, in lieu of tax, supply its utility provider with  a properly completed Exemption Certificate for Qualifying Data Centers  or Qualifying Large Data Center Projects, Form 01-929. Refer to subsection  (h) of this section regarding exemption certificates;  (B) an electrical system;  (C) a cooling system;  (D) an emergency generator;  (E) hardware or a distributed mainframe computer or  server;  (F) a data storage device;  (G) network connectivity equipment;  (H) a rack, cabinet, and raised floor system;  (I) a peripheral component or system;  (J) software;  (K) a mechanical, electrical, or plumbing system that  is necessary to operate any tangible personal property described in  this subsection;  (L) any other item of equipment or system necessary  to operate any tangible personal property described in this subsection,  including a fixture; or  (M) a component part of any tangible personal property  described in this subsection.  (3) The purchase price of qualifying tangible personal  property, including building materials, electricity, and other items,  jointly procured by a qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying  occupant for installation at, incorporation into, or use in one or  more qualifying data centers or qualifying large data center projects  is to be apportioned among the purchasers for purposes of subsection  (i)(2) of this section, concerning liability in the event of revocation.  (c) Exclusion from exemption. The exemption in subsection  (b) of this section does not apply to:  (1) office equipment or supplies;  (2) maintenance or janitorial supplies or equipment;  (3) equipment or supplies used primarily in sales activities  or transportation activities;  (4) tangible personal property on which the purchaser  has received or has a pending application for a refund under Tax Code, §151.429  (Tax Refunds for Enterprise Projects);  (5) tangible personal property that is rented or leased  for a term of one year or less;  (6) tangible personal property not otherwise exempted  under subsection (b) of this section that is incorporated into real  estate or into an improvement of real estate; or  (7) notwithstanding Tax Code, §151.3111 (Services  on Certain Exempted Personal Property), a taxable service that is  performed on tangible personal property exempted under this section.  (d) Eligibility for certification as a qualifying data  center. The comptroller may certify an applicant facility as a qualifying  data center if the following requirements are met:  (1) the applicants declare on the application for certification  that the facility does or will meet all of the requirements for the  definition of the term ""data center"" set out in subsection (a)(3)  of this section;  (2) the data center is at least 100,000 square feet  of space located in a single building or portion of a single building;  (3) the qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying  occupant, jointly or independently, have agreed to, on or after September  1, 2013:  (A) create at least 20 qualifying jobs on or before  the fifth anniversary of the date that the data center is certified  by the comptroller as a qualifying data center; and  (B) make a capital investment of at least $200 million  in that particular data center over a five-year period beginning on  the date the data center is certified by the comptroller as a qualifying  data center. For purposes of this subparagraph:  (i) an expenditure can only be counted toward the capital  investment requirement if invoiced to the qualifying owner, qualifying  operator, or qualifying occupant on or after the date the comptroller  certifies the data center; and  (ii) purchases by a related corporate entity on behalf  of a qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying occupant  cannot be included in the capital investment calculation; and  (4) the applicant facility does not have an agreement  under which it receives a limitation on appraised value of property  for ad valorem tax purposes under Tax Code, Chapter 313 (Texas Economic  Development Act).  (e) Eligibility for certification as a qualifying large  data center project. The comptroller may certify an applicant facility  as a qualifying large data center project if the following requirements  are met:  (1) the applicants declare on the application for certification  that the facility does or will meet all of the requirements for the  definition of the term ""data center"" set out in subsection (a)(3)  of this section;  Cont\'d...', ""(2) the data center is composed of one or more buildings  totaling at least 250,000 square feet of space located or to be located  on a single parcel of land or on contiguous parcels of land that are  commonly owned or owned by affiliation with the qualifying operator;  (3) the qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying  occupant, jointly or independently, have agreed to:  (A) on or after June 1, 2015, create at least 40 qualifying  jobs on or before the fifth anniversary of the date that the data  center submits the application to the comptroller;  (B) on or after May 1, 2015, make a capital investment  of at least $500 million in that particular data center over a five-year  period beginning on the date the data center submits the application  to the comptroller. For purposes of this subparagraph:  (i) an expenditure can only be counted toward the capital  investment requirement if invoiced to the qualifying owner, qualifying  operator, or qualifying occupant on or after the date the data center  submits the application to the comptroller; and  (ii) purchases by a related corporate entity on behalf  of a qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying occupant  cannot be included in the capital investment calculation; and  (C) on or after June 1, 2015, contract for at least  20 megawatts of transmission capacity for operation of the qualifying  large data center project; and  (4) the applicant facility does not have an agreement  under which it receives a limitation on appraised value of property  for ad valorem tax purposes under Tax Code, Chapter 313 (Texas Economic  Development Act).  (f) Application process.  (1) A facility that is eligible to be certified under  subsection (d) of this section as a qualifying data center or under  subsection (e) of this section as a qualifying large data center project  by the comptroller shall apply for a registration number on the Texas  Application for Certification as a Qualifying Data Center, Form AP-233  or Texas Application for Certification as a Qualifying Large Data  Center Project, Form AP-236, as applicable. The application must include:  (A) the name, contact information, and authorized signature  for the qualifying occupant and, if applicable, the name, contact  information, and authorized signature for the qualifying owner and  the qualifying operator who will claim the exemption authorized under  this section;  (B) a business proposal summarizing the plan of the  qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying occupant, independently  or jointly, to meet the requirements in subsection (d) of this section  for qualifying data centers or subsection (e) of this section for  qualifying large data center projects; and  (C) a statement confirming that the qualifying owner,  qualifying operator, and qualifying occupant, as applicable, agree  that the statute of limitation provided in Tax Code, §111.201  (Assessment Limitation) on the assessment of tax, penalty, and interest  on purchases made tax-free under this section is tolled from the date  of certification until the fifth anniversary of that date, or until  such time as the comptroller is able to verify that the requirements  set out in subsection (d) of this section for qualifying data centers  or subsection (e) of this section for qualifying large data center  projects have been met, whichever is later.  (2) Information provided on and with the application  under this subsection is confidential under Tax Code, §151.027  (Confidentiality of Tax Information).  (3) After certifying the qualifying data center or  qualifying large data center project, the comptroller will issue a  separate registration number to the qualifying owner, the qualifying  operator, and the qualifying occupant, as applicable, based on the  registration number of the qualifying data center or qualifying large  data center project.  (g) Temporary exemption dates. The exemption under  this section is temporary. The exemption applies to qualifying purchases  made by a qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying occupant  during the exemption period applicable to the qualifying data center  or qualifying large data center project.  (1) The exemption period for a qualifying data center  or qualifying large data center project begins on the date the data  center is certified by the comptroller.  (2) A qualifying data center's exemption period ends  10 or 15 years from the certification date, depending on the amount  of capital investment made.  (A) A qualifying data center's sales tax exemption  expires 10 years from the date of certification by the comptroller  if the qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying occupant,  independently or jointly, makes a capital investment of at least $200  million, but less than $250 million, within the first five years after  certification.  (B) A qualifying data center's sales tax exemption  expires 15 years from the date of certification by the comptroller  if the qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying occupant,  independently or jointly, makes a capital investment of at least $250  million within the first five years after certification.  (3) A qualifying large data center project's exemption  period ends 20 years from the date of certification by the comptroller  provided the qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying  occupant, independently or jointly, makes a capital investment of  at least $500 million within the first five years after certification.  (4) The comptroller will audit each qualifying data  center and qualifying large data center project at its five year anniversary  to verify the amount of capital investment made and to verify that  the jobs creation requirement has been met. The comptroller will also  verify the contract for transmission capacity for operation of a qualifying  large data center project.  (5) Once all jobs are created, as required under subsection  (d) of this section for qualifying data centers or subsection (e)  of this section for qualifying large data center projects, the qualifying  owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying occupant, either singly  or jointly, must timely notify the comptroller by providing a properly  completed Qualifying Data Center or Qualifying Large Data Center Project  Job Creation Report, 01-160.  (h) Exemption certificate. Each person who is eligible  to claim an exemption authorized by this section must hold a registration  number issued by the comptroller.  (1) To claim an exemption under this section for the  purchase of tangible personal property, a qualifying owner, qualifying  operator, or qualifying occupant must provide to the seller of a taxable  item an Exemption Certificate for Qualifying Data Centers or Qualifying  Large Data Center Projects, Form 01-929. The exemption certificate  does not apply to local sales and use tax for qualifying data centers.  Refer to subsection (l) of this section for more information regarding  local sales and use tax.  (2) To claim the exemption, a qualifying owner, qualifying  operator, or qualifying occupant must properly complete all required  information on the exemption certificate, including:  (A) the data center registration number;  (B) the registration number of the qualifying owner,  qualifying operator, or qualifying occupant, as applicable;  (C) the address of the qualifying owner, qualifying  operator, or qualifying occupant, as applicable;  (D) a description of the tangible personal property  to be purchased;  (E) the signature of the purchaser; and  (F) the date of the purchase.  (3) The properly completed Exemption Certificate for  Qualifying Data Centers or Qualifying Large Data Center Projects is  the seller's documentation that it made a tax-exempt sale in good  faith. The seller is required to keep the exemption certificate and  all other financial records relating to the exempt sale, including  records to document the seller's collection of the local sales and  use tax for qualifying data centers. The seller must be able to match  invoices of tax-exempt sales to the purchaser's exemption certificate.  This may be accomplished by the seller entering the purchaser's registration  number on each invoice.  (4) A seller is not required to accept an exemption  certificate from a qualifying data center or qualifying large data  center project. If a seller chooses not to accept an exemption certificate  issued by a purchaser, the purchaser may instead request a refund  of the tax paid from the comptroller. Sellers shall provide an Assignment  of Right to Refund, Form 00-985, when the exemption is not provided  to a qualifying owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying occupant  when qualifying purchases of tangible personal property are made.  (i) Revocation. By filing an application for certification  of a qualifying data center or qualifying large data center project,  the qualifying owner, qualifying operator, and qualifying occupant,  as applicable, commit to meeting the requirements set out in subsection  (d) of this section for qualifying data centers or subsection (e)  of this section for qualifying large data center projects and certify  the data center will be occupied by a single qualifying occupant over  the life of the exemption. For more information, refer to subsection  (d) of this section for qualifying data center requirements, subsection  (e) of this section for qualifying large data center project requirements,  and subsection (g) of this section for the term of the exemption.  (1) Failure to meet one or more of the certification  requirements described in subsection (d) of this section for qualifying  data centers or subsection (e) of this section for qualifying large  data center projects will result in termination of the certification  and the revocation of all related qualifying owner, qualifying operator,  and qualifying occupant exemption registration numbers.  (2) Each entity that has a registration number revoked  will be liable for unpaid sales or use taxes, including penalty and  interest from the date of purchase, on all items purchased tax-free  under this section, back to the original date of certification of  the data center as a qualifying data center or qualifying large data  center project.  (3) If a formal waiver of the statute of limitations  under Tax Code, §111.203 (Agreements to Extend Period of Limitation)  is deemed necessary to insure against a loss of revenue to the state  in the event that a data center's certification is revoked, by allowing  the comptroller to verify, prior to the expiration of the statute  of limitations on assessment, that each of the requirements in subsection  (d) of this section for qualifying data centers or subsection (e)  of this section for qualifying large data center projects has been  met, then the failure to execute a timely statutory waiver will also  result in the termination of the data center's certification and the  revocation of all related registration numbers.  (j) Documentation and record retention.  (1) In accordance with Tax Code, §111.0041 (Records;  Burden to Produce and Substantiate Claims) and §151.025 (Records  Required to be Kept), all qualifying occupants, qualifying owners,  and qualifying operators of a qualifying data center or qualifying  large data center project must keep complete records to document any  and all tax-exempt purchases made under this exemption, and to confirm  payment of the local sales and use tax on such purchases by qualifying  data centers. See §3.281 of this title (relating to Records Required;  Information Required) for additional guidance.  (2) In addition, each qualifying owner, qualifying  operator, and qualifying occupant of a qualifying data center or qualifying  large data center project must keep complete records to document the  applicable capital investment made in the qualifying data center or  qualifying large data center project; the creation of the required  number of applicable qualifying jobs including the retention of those  jobs for a period of at least five years; and documentation of the  contract for the applicable transmission capacity for qualifying large  data center projects. These records must be retained until the data  center's certification expires. For example, a qualifying owner, qualifying  operator, or qualifying occupant should keep comprehensive records  of capital investment expenditures, such as contracts, invoices, and  sales receipts, and employment records regarding job creation, including  associated third-party employer positions.  (3) In the event the comptroller revokes the certification  of a qualifying data center or qualifying large data center project,  the records of all qualifying owners, qualifying operators, and qualifying  occupants must be retained until all assessments have been resolved.  (k) Successor Liability. A purchaser of a qualifying  owner, qualifying operator, or qualifying occupant's business or stock  of goods in a qualifying data center or qualifying large data center  project is subject to Tax Code, §111.020 (Tax Collection on Termination  of Business).  (l) Local tax. The state sales and use tax exemption  for qualifying owners, qualifying operators, or qualifying occupant  of a qualifying data center does not apply to local sales and use  tax. Local sales and use tax must be paid on the purchase of any tangible  personal property that qualifies for exemption from state sales and  use tax under this section. This subsection is not applicable to qualifying  large data center projects.  (m) An entity that qualifies for the exemption under  this section as a qualifying data center or qualifying large data  center project is not eligible to receive a limitation on appraised  value of property for ad valorem tax purposes under Tax Code, Chapter  313 (Texas Economic Development Act)."
55|§3.336|Currency, Certain Coins, and Gold, Silver, and Platinum Bullion|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=336|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Bullion--Gold, silver, or platinum that is formed  into uniform shapes and quantities such as ingots, bars, or plates,  with uniform content and purity, as are suitable for or customarily  used in the purchase, sale, storage, transfer, and delivery of bulk  or wholesale transactions in gold, silver, or platinum.  (2) Currency--The coin and paper money of the United  States or another country that is designated as legal tender and circulates  and is customarily used and accepted as a medium of exchange in the  country of issuance.  (3) Numismatic coin--A coin that is not used as a medium  of exchange or whose price depends more on characteristics such as  beauty, rarity, and condition than on its metal content or its face  value.  (b) Taxability of sales of gold, silver, or numismatic  coins, and gold, silver, or platinum bullion. Effective October 1,  2013, the sale of gold, silver, or numismatic coins or of gold, silver,  or platinum bullion is exempted from Texas sales and use tax. (1) This exemption does not include gold, silver, or  numismatic coins, or gold, silver, or platinum bullion in the form  of jewelry or other items of adornment. (2) The purchase of a commodity contract for items  exempt under this subsection is not a taxable transaction. (c) Taxability of currency exchanges. The exchange  of currency for another form of currency based on an exchange rate  is not a taxable transaction if the invoice, receipt, billing, sales  slip or ticket, or contract issued to the customer identifies the  exchange rate.  (d) Taxability of the sale of certain paper money.  The sale of paper money that is not currency is taxable as the sale  of tangible personal property. Sales or use tax is due on the total  sales price of the paper money.  (e) Use of gold, silver, or numismatic coins or gold,  silver, or platinum bullion to acquire taxable items. Persons who  use gold, silver, or numismatic coins or gold, silver, or platinum  bullion to acquire taxable items owe tax on the transaction based  on the sales price of the taxable item.
56|§3.337|Gratuities|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=337|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Mandatory gratuity charge--Any amount required by the seller for the service of meals and food products for immediate consumption including soft drinks and candy. (2) Qualified employees--Employees who customarily and regularly provide the service upon which a gratuity is based, including, but not limited to, waiters, waitresses, busboys, service bartenders, wine stewards, and maitres d'hotel. The term does not include janitorial help, chefs, cashiers, or dishwashers. (3) Reasonable mandatory gratuity charge--Mandatory gratuity charges that do not exceed 20% of the sales price. (4) Total direct compensation--Total salaries paid to qualified employees. The term does not include other benefits paid or incurred on an employee's behalf, such as health and life insurance, sick leave, or vacation time. (5) Voluntary gratuity--A tip added to the bill at the suggestion of the purchaser or money given freely by the purchaser over and above the sales price. (b) Voluntary gratuities are excluded from the sales price of taxable items. (c) Mandatory gratuity charges. (1) Reasonable mandatory gratuity charges are excluded from the sales price of taxable items if they are: (A) separated from the sales price of the meal or food product served for immediate consumption; (B) identified as a tip or gratuity by any reasonable means, including such terms as service fee or service charge; and (C) disbursed to qualified employees. Any portion of a reasonable mandatory gratuity charge that is retained by the employer is subject to sales tax. (2) Mandatory gratuity charges in excess of 20%. If a mandatory gratuity charge exceeds 20% then the entire mandatory gratuity charge is subject to sales tax regardless of how the gratuity is disbursed. (d) Records. The employer must maintain records that demonstrate the amount of mandatory gratuity charges that have been disbursed to qualified employees. In order to comply with this requirement, the records must show: (1) the amount of mandatory gratuity charges collected from customers and the corresponding disbursements to each qualified employee; or (2) that the total direct compensation due all qualified employees equals or exceeds the total amount collected as mandatory gratuity charges.
57|§3.338|Multistate Tax Credits and Allowance of Credit for Tax Paid to Suppliers|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=338|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Multistate Tax Compact--The agreement between member  states to promote uniform tax treatment and to avoid double taxation  of multistate taxpayers, of which the State of Texas is a member,  as provided for in Tax Code, Chapter 141. (2) Sales tax--A tax imposed on the transfer of title  or possession of taxable items for consideration. See Tax Code, §151.005. (3) Use tax--This term has the meaning given in §3.346  of this title (relating to Use Tax). Use tax is complementary to the  sales tax and is imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption  of taxable items in this state. (b) Multistate tax credits. (1) As a member of the multistate tax compact, and  as provided under Tax Code, §151.303(c), Texas will allow as  a credit against Texas use tax due any combined amounts of legally  imposed sales or use taxes paid on the same item to another state  or any subdivision of another state. The credit will be allowed even  though the other state may not be a member of the multistate tax compact. (2) The credit shall be applied first against the amount  of any use tax due the state. Any remaining credit is then applied  against the amount of local use tax due in the following order: (A) transit use tax, including use taxes imposed by  a metropolitan transit authority, city transit department, county  transit authority, advanced transportation district, or similar entity  authorized to impose sales and use tax under the Transportation Code; (B) special purpose district use tax, including use  taxes imposed by a fire control, prevention, and emergency services  district, a crime control and prevention district, or any similar  special purpose district created under Tax Code, Chapter 321 or 323; (C) county use taxes imposed under Tax Code, Chapter  323; and (D) municipal use tax imposed under Tax Code, Chapter  321, including additional municipal taxes adopted under Tax Code, §321.101(b). (3) The following example illustrates the manner in  which the credit should be calculated and applied. A person buys a  laptop computer in Oklahoma for $1300 and pays 5.0% sales tax. The  purchaser then takes the computer to Dallas. Texas state and local  use taxes are due on this purchase at the rate of 8.25%. The 8.25%  use tax is based on 6.25% state tax, 1.0% Dallas city tax, and 1.0%  Dallas MTA tax. The purchaser may receive a credit for the 5.0% tax  that was paid to Oklahoma. A total of 3.25% Texas state and local  tax is due (8.25% Texas state and local tax - 5.0% Oklahoma state  and local sales tax = 3.25%). The credit is first applied to state  use tax. Therefore, state use tax of 1.25% is due (6.25% Texas state  use tax - 5.0% Oklahoma state and local tax = 1.25%). The amount due  for Texas state use tax is $1300 x 1.25% = $16.25. The amount due  for Dallas Metropolitan Transit Authority use tax is $1300 x 1.0%  = $13.00. The amount due for Dallas city use tax is $1300 x 1.0% =  $13.00. (4) Sales tax legally imposed by the State of Texas  will not be refunded because of payment of a use tax imposed by another  state. (5) Use tax collected by the State of Texas will be  refunded or allowed as a credit on subsequent sales and use tax returns  to the extent of a subsequent payment of use tax to another state,  if the other state's use tax was imposed as a result of the taxable  item's use in that state prior to its use in Texas. (6) Credit against use tax collected by the State of  Texas will not be allowed for sales tax paid to another state that  was not legally due and paid to another state. (7) Credit against the Texas use tax will not be allowed  for any gross receipts tax imposed on retailers in another state,  if that tax is not customarily separated from the sales price of taxable  items, and is not customarily passed on directly to customers as tax,  but, rather, is characterized as a reimbursement or recovery of the  tax owed by the retailer. (c) Credit for tax paid to suppliers by permitted purchaser.  General information about refund claims and credits that may be claimed  in the context of a refund claim is located in §3.325 of this  title (relating to Refunds and Payments Under Protest). (1) Credit may be claimed on a permitted purchaser's  return for tax paid to suppliers in error. (A) Before taking a credit on a return, the permitted  purchaser must have a receipt from a Texas retailer or other seller  authorized to collect the Texas sales and use tax. The receipt must  reflect the amount of tax paid and the selling price of the taxable  item. Receipts from out-of-state sellers must identify the tax as  Texas sales or use tax. (B) A credit must be claimed within the applicable  statute of limitations. See §3.339 of this title (relating to  Statute of Limitations). (C) Within the statute of limitations, a credit may  be claimed on a return for a later reporting period or by filing an  amended return for the reporting period in which the tax was paid  in error. (2) A permitted purchaser may claim a credit for tax  paid on the purchase of taxable items that were resold prior to the  purchaser making a taxable use of the items. (3) Tax paid to a supplier on taxable items that the  permitted purchaser does not resell but uses for an exempt purpose  may be claimed as a credit on the purchaser's return. For example,  a manufacturer who mistakenly pays tax to a supplier when purchasing  manufacturing equipment that qualifies for exemption under Tax Code, §151.318  may claim a credit for the tax paid on that equipment. (4) Local sales and use tax credit may also be claimed.  A permitted purchaser who claims a credit for local sales and use  tax paid to a supplier is responsible for taking the credit against  local tax to the same local taxing jurisdictions to which the supplier  reported the tax. (d) Effect of a person's rights to other deductions.  Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting a person's  right to the deductions for bad debts, repossessions, returned sales,  or renegotiated selling price as provided in the Tax Code or other  sections of this title. (e) Texas Emissions Reduction Plan Surcharge. Credit  for tax paid to another state, governmental entity, or county is not  allowed against the Texas Emissions Reduction Plan Surcharge imposed  under Tax Code, §151.0515.
58|§3.339|Statute of Limitations|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=339|(a) Assessments. (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the comptroller has four years from the date a tax becomes due and payable to assess a deficiency tax liability. For information as to when a tax becomes due and payable, see §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller's and Purchaser's Responsibilities, including Nexus, Permits, Returns and Reporting Periods, Collection and Exemption Rules, and Criminal Penalties). (2) The statute of limitations does not apply and the comptroller may assess and collect taxes, penalties, and interest at any time against a taxpayer if: (A) the taxpayer files a false or fraudulent sales tax return with the intent to evade the tax; (B) the taxpayer fails to file a sales tax return; or (C) the taxpayer files a sales tax return that has a gross error. A gross error exists when the amount of tax due and payable, after the correction of error, exceeds the amount of tax reported on the return by at least 25%. (3) The statute of limitations does not apply to any period for which a taxpayer has filed a timely claim for a sales tax refund if, while investigating the merits of the refund claim, the comptroller determines that additional tax is due. The assessment for the additional tax determined to be due for that period must be made within four years from the date the claim for refund was filed. (b) Extension of limitations period. Before the expiration of the statute of limitations, the comptroller and a taxpayer may agree in writing to extend the limitation period in accordance with Tax Code, §111.203. An extension applies only to the periods specifically mentioned in the agreement and no single extension agreement may be for a period that exceeds 24 months from the date of the expiration of the period being extended. Any assessment or refund request pertaining to periods for which limitations have been extended must be made prior to the expiration date of the agreement. Following expiration of the agreement, the statute of limitations applies to subsequent assessments and refund requests as if no extension had been authorized. (c) Tolling of limitations. In computing the expiration date of a limitation period, the following periods are not considered: (1) the period following the date of the protest payment to the date of the timely filed lawsuit in district court suspends the statute of limitations for the same contested issues raised; (2) the period during which a judicial proceeding involving a protest suit is pending suspends the statute of limitations for the same contested issues raised; (3) the period during which an administrative redetermination or refund hearing is pending suspends the statute of limitations for the same contested issues raised; and (4) the period during which a bankruptcy proceeding commenced under United States Code, Title 11 is pending suspends the statute of limitations. (d) Refunds. For information on the statute of limitations for refunds, see §3.325(b) of this title (relating to Refunds and Payments Under Protest). (e) Successor liability. The comptroller may assess tax against the successor of a business if, at the time the business or stock of goods was acquired, the seller of the business had an outstanding sales tax liability with the state. The assessment must be made within four years from the date of the sale of the business to the successor or from the date a determination against the seller becomes final, whichever event occurs later. For information on successor liability, see §3.7 of this title (relating to Successor Liability: Liability Incurred by Purchase of a Business). (f) Suit for collection. Within three years from the date that a deficiency or jeopardy determination becomes due and payable, or within three years after the last recording of a lien, the comptroller may file suit for collection of the taxes, penalties and interest. If a redetermination hearing is requested, the determination will not become final until a redetermination decision is issued and becomes final. (g) Notice of delinquency. Within three years from the date that a deficiency determination becomes due and payable, a jeopardy determination becomes final, the last recording of a lien, or a redetermination decision becomes final, the comptroller may give notice of delinquency to all persons who have in their possession or under their control any credits or other personal property belonging to the delinquent, or who owe any debts to the delinquent. (h) Seizure. Within three years from the date that a deficiency determination becomes due and payable, a jeopardy determination becomes final, or a redetermination decision becomes final, the comptroller may seize any property of the delinquent and sell the property, or a sufficient part of it, at public auction to pay the taxes, penalties, and interest due. (i) Remedies cumulative. The remedies of the state are cumulative and no action taken by the comptroller or the attorney general constitutes an election by the state to pursue any remedy to the exclusion of any other remedy for which provision is made.
59|§3.340|Qualified Research|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=340|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Combined group--Taxable entities that are part  of an affiliated group engaged in a unitary business and that are  required to file a combined group report under Tax Code, §171.1014.  (A) A combined group may not include a taxable entity  that conducts business outside the United States if 80% or more of  the taxable entity's property and payroll are assigned to locations  outside the United States. If either the property factor or payroll  factor is zero, the denominator is one. For example, if Corporation  Z has no property, but does have payroll located entirely outside  the United States, Corporation Z will not be included in the combined  group. The combined group may not include a taxable entity that conducts  business outside the United States and has no property or payroll  if 80% or more of the taxable entity's gross receipts are assigned  to locations outside the United States. See Tax Code, §171.1014.  (B) A combined group may not include an exempt entity.  (C) A combined group must include eligible entities  even if those entities do not have nexus as described in §3.586  of this title (relating to Margin: Nexus).  (D) Eligible pass-through entities including partnerships,  limited liability companies taxed as partnerships under federal law,  limited liability companies that are disregarded under federal law  and S corporations are included in a combined group.  (E) Passive entities are not included in the combined  group; however, the pro rata share of net income from a passive entity  shall be included in total revenue to the extent it was not generated  by the margin of another taxable entity.  (2) Directly used in qualified research--Having an  immediate use in qualified research activity, without an intervening  or ancillary use.  (3) Franchise tax research and development activities  credit--A credit against franchise tax for qualified research activities  that is allowed under Tax Code, Chapter 171, Subchapter M (Tax Credit  for Certain Research and Development Activities).  (4) Internal Revenue Code--The Internal Revenue Code  of 1986 in effect on December 31, 2011, excluding any changes made  by federal law after that date, but including any regulations adopted  under the code applicable to the tax year to which the provisions  of the code in effect on that date applied.  (5) Qualified research--This term has the meaning given  in Internal Revenue Code, §41. (A) Qualified research means research undertaken for  discovering information that is technological in nature, and its application  must be intended for use in developing a new or improved business  component of the person undertaking the research. Substantially all  of the activities of the research must be elements of a process of  experimentation relating to a new or improved function, performance,  reliability, or quality.  (B) Qualified research does not include the following  activities:  (i) research related to style, taste, cosmetic or seasonal  design factors;  (ii) research conducted after the beginning of commercial  production of the business component;  (iii) research adapting an existing product or process  to a particular customer's need;  (iv) duplication of an existing product or process;  (v) surveys or studies;  (vi) research relating to certain internal-use computer  software;  (vii) research conducted outside the United States,  Puerto Rico, or a U.S. possession;  (viii) research in the social sciences, arts, or humanities;  or  (ix) research funded by another person or governmental  entity.  (6) Registrant--A person who holds a Texas Qualified  Research Registration Number issued by the comptroller.  (7) Registration number--The Texas Qualified Research  Registration Number issued by the comptroller to a person who submits  the Texas Registration for Qualified Research and Development Sales  Tax Exemption form.  (8) Taxable entity--This term has the meaning given  by Tax Code, §171.0002 (Definition of Taxable Entity).  (b) Depreciable tangible personal property used in  qualified research. (1) Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, the  sale, storage, or use of tangible personal property is exempt from  Texas sales and use tax if the property:  (A) has a useful life that exceeds one year; (B) is subject to depreciation under:  (i) generally accepted accounting principles; or  (ii) Internal Revenue Code, §167 or §168  of 1986, in effect on December 31, 2011; and  (C) is sold, leased, rented to, or used or stored by  a person engaged in qualified research; and  (D) is directly used in qualified research. Depreciable  tangible personal property is directly used in qualified research  if it is used in the actual performance of activities that are part  of the qualified research. For example, machinery, equipment, computers,  software, tools, laboratory furniture such as desks, laboratory tables,  stools, benches, and storage cabinets, and other tangible personal  property used by personnel in the process of experimentation are directly  used in qualified research. Tangible personal property is not directly  used in qualified research if it is used in ancillary or support activities  such as administration, maintenance, marketing, distribution, or transportation  activities, or if it is used in activities excluded from qualified  research. For example, machinery and equipment used by administrative,  accounting, or clerical personnel are not directly used in qualified  research.  (2) A person may not claim the exemption if that person  will, as a taxable entity or as a member of a combined group, claim  a franchise tax research and development activities credit on a franchise  tax report based on the accounting period during which the depreciable  tangible personal property used in qualified research would first  be subject to Texas sales or use tax.  (3) A claim for a carryforward of an unused franchise  tax research and development activities credit under Tax Code, §171.659  does not affect a person's ability, as a taxable entity or as a member  of a combined group, to claim the sales and use tax exemption provided  by paragraph (1) of this subsection.  (c) Texas Qualified Research and Development Exemption  Registration. In order to claim an exemption under this section, a  person must first register with the comptroller and obtain a registration  number.  (1) Registration procedure. To obtain a registration  number, a person must complete Form AP-234, Texas Registration for  Qualified Research and Development Sales Tax Exemption, its electronic  equivalent, or any form promulgated by the comptroller that succeeds  such form.  (A) The person requesting the registration number must  certify that it will not, as a taxable entity or as a member of a  combined group, claim a franchise tax research and development activities  credit on a franchise tax report based on an accounting period during  which it claims an exemption under subsection (b) of this section.  (B) The person requesting the registration number must  provide all data and information required by the comptroller to administer  the exemption and comply with Tax Code, §151.3182(c).  (2) Retroactive registration. A person may request  that a registration number be given retroactive effect. (A) A person may request that a registration number  have retroactive effect by submitting a registration as required under  paragraph (1) of this subsection and by completing an annual information  report, described in paragraph (3) of this subsection, for each prior  year for which the registration number is to be effective.  (B) The registration number may be made retroactive  to the later of January 1, 2014, or a date requested by a registrant  that is no more than four years prior to the date the registration  is received, if the date requested is not within an accounting period  during which the registrant, as a taxable entity or as a member of  a combined group, claimed the franchise tax research and development  activities credit.  (C) A registrant who is issued a retroactive registration  number may file a claim for refund of Texas sales and use tax paid  on purchases made on or after the later of January 1, 2014, or the  effective date of the registration number, that qualify for exemption  under subsection (b) of this section, in accordance with the requirements  of §3.325 of this title (relating to Refunds and Payments Under  Protest).  (D) A claim for a carryforward of an unused franchise  tax research and development activities credit under Tax Code, §171.659  does not affect a person's ability, as a taxable entity or as a member  of a combined group, to request a retroactive registration.  (3) Annual information report. A registrant must submit  an annual information report for each calendar year its registration  number is effective, irrespective of the date on which the original  registration occurred. (A) The registrant must provide all data and information  required by the comptroller to administer the exemption and comply  with Tax Code, §151.3182(c). (B) The annual information report must be submitted  electronically unless the comptroller issues a waiver. A registrant  who cannot comply with this requirement due to hardship, impracticality,  or other valid reason must submit a written request to the comptroller  for a waiver of the requirement.  (C) The due date for the annual information report  for the preceding calendar year is March 31. If March 31 falls on  a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, the due date is the next business  day. (i) An annual information report filed electronically  must be completed and submitted by 11:59 p.m. central time on the  due date to be considered timely.  (ii) Reports submitted on paper must be postmarked  on or before the due date to be considered timely.  (D) A registrant who fails to timely file an annual  information report for its registration number will be given written  notice of the failure to file. If an annual information report is  not submitted within 60 days of the date of the notice of failure  to file, the registration number will be cancelled by the comptroller  in accordance with paragraph (5) of this subsection.  (4) Direct payment permit holders. A direct payment  permit holder must obtain a registration number as required by paragraph  (1) of this subsection in order to claim an exemption under this section.  A direct payment permit holder with a registration number must file  an annual information report for each year the number is effective  as required by paragraph (3) of this subsection.  (5) Cancellation of registration number by the comptroller.  The comptroller will cancel the registration number of a registrant  who fails to comply with the provisions of this section. For example,  the comptroller will cancel the registration number of a registrant  who fails to file an annual information report or who claims the franchise  tax research and development activities credit without first cancelling  its registration number, as required by paragraph (8) of this subsection.  The comptroller shall give written notice of the cancellation to the  registrant. The notice may be personally served on the registrant  or sent by regular mail to the registrant's address as shown in the  comptroller's records. The former registrant may not claim an exemption  under this section during the period when the registration number  is cancelled. A former registrant that purchases an item under a cancelled  registration number may be subject to a criminal penalty under Tax  Code, §151.707 and §3.287(d)(3) of this title (relating  to Exemption Certificates). (6) Effective date of cancellation. A registrant whose  registration number is cancelled by the comptroller is responsible  for remitting Texas sales and use tax, and penalty and interest from  the date of purchase, on any items purchased tax-free pursuant to  Tax Code, §151.3182 on or after the effective date of cancellation.  In the case of a registrant whose registration number is cancelled  because the registrant, as a taxable entity or as a member of a combined  group, claimed the franchise tax research and development activities  credit, the effective date of cancellation is the beginning date of  the accounting period covered by the franchise tax report on which  the credit was claimed.  (7) Reinstatement following cancellation. A former  registrant who has had its registration number cancelled by the comptroller  may submit a request in writing to have the registration number reinstated. (A) A former registrant whose registration number has  been cancelled may request reinstatement of the number be given retroactive  effect. The registrant must file an annual information report for  each prior year for which the registration number is to be effective.  (B) A registration number will not be reinstated for  periods during which the former registrant is not eligible for the  exemption under this section.  "", ""(C) Before the comptroller will reinstate a registration  number, the former registrant must remit any Texas sales and use taxes,  as well as applicable penalties and interest from the date of purchase,  on all purchases made tax-free under this section during periods when  the registrant was not eligible for the exemption under this section.  (8) Cancellation of registration number by registrant.  A registrant who has received a registration number and subsequently  chooses to claim the franchise tax research and development activities  credit must cancel the registration number. The registrant is responsible  for remitting Texas sales and use tax, and penalty and interest from  the date of purchase, on any items purchased tax-free under this section  during any accounting periods covered by a franchise tax report on  which the credit is claimed.  (d) Texas Qualified Research Sales and Use Tax Exemption  Certificate. Beginning January 1, 2014, a retailer may accept a valid  and complete Form 01-931, Texas Qualified Research Sales and Use Tax  Exemption Certificate or any form promulgated by the comptroller or  that succeeds such form, in lieu of Texas sales and use tax on the  sale of depreciable tangible personal property that qualifies for  exemption under subsection (b) of this section. To be valid and complete,  a Texas Qualified Research Sales and Use Tax Exemption Certificate  must bear the registration number issued to the registrant by the  comptroller and must be signed by the registrant or the registrant's  authorized agent. Texas Qualified Research Sales and Use Tax Exemption  Certificates are subject to the requirements of §3.287(d) of  this title. A retailer must maintain a copy of the Texas Qualified  Research Sales and Use Tax Exemption Certificate accepted in lieu  of tax on a sale and all records supporting that transaction. Refer  to §3.281 of this title (relating to Records Required; Information  Required).  (e) Divergent use. When a registrant uses an item purchased  under a valid Texas Qualified Research Sale and Use Tax Exemption  Certificate in a taxable manner, the registrant is liable for payment  of Texas sales and use tax, plus penalty and interest as applicable,  based on the fair market rental value of the tangible personal property  for the period of time used in the taxable manner. Refer to Tax Code, §151.155  (Exemption Certificate).  (f) Refund of Texas sales and use tax paid on depreciable  tangible personal property used in qualified research. A registrant  with a valid registration number may file a claim for refund of Texas  sales and use tax paid on purchases made on or after the later of  January 1, 2014, or the effective date of the registration number,  that qualify for exemption under subsection (b) of this section in  accordance with the requirements of §3.325 of this title.  (g) Expiration. The sales and use tax exemption for  depreciable tangible personal property used in qualified research  expires on December 31, 2026."
60|§3.342|Information Services|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=342|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in  this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly  indicates otherwise. (1) Data processing services -- Processing, reformatting, or  manipulating data provided by the customer is data processing and is not included  in the definition of information services. (2) Information services -- Furnishing general or specialized  news or other current information, including financial information, by printed,  mimeographed, electronic, or electrical transmission, or by utilizing wires,  cable, radio waves, microwaves, satellites, fiber optics, or any other method  now in existence or which may be devised, and electronic data retrieval or  research. The term information services does not include Internet access service  or information services that are provided in conjunction with and merely incidental  to the provision of Internet access service when provided for a single charge.  (3) Internet -- collectively the myriad of computer and  telecommunications facilities, including equipment and operating software,  that comprise the interconnected worldwide network of networks that employ  the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol, or any predecessor or  successor protocols to the protocol, to communicate information of all kinds  by wire or radio. (4) Internet access service -- a service that enables  users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services offered  over the Internet and may also include access to proprietary content, information,  and other services as part of a package of services offered to consumers.  Internet access service does not include any other taxable service, unless  the taxable service is provided in conjunction with and is merely incidental  to the provision of Internet access service. Individuals providing Internet  access should refer to §3.366 of this title (relating to Internet Access  Services). (5) Nontaxable information services. (A) The sale of information that is gathered or compiled on  behalf of a particular client is not subject to tax if the information is  of a proprietary nature to that client and may not be sold to others by the  person who gathered or compiled the information. Any subsequent sale of such  information by the client for whom the information was gathered or compiled  is subject to tax. Examples include opinion polls and management consultant  reports. (B) Any sale of information primarily derived from laboratory,  medical, or exploratory testing or experimentation or any similar method of  direct scientific observation of physical phenomena is not subject to tax.  Examples include, but are not limited to, geophysical survey information,  polygraph test, and medical test results. (C) Information required to be furnished pursuant to the Open  Records Act is not subject to sales tax. See §3.341 of this title (relating  to Sales of Governmental Publications, Records, or Documents). Fees paid when  obtaining these documents may be excluded from the tax base if separately  stated when the documents are furnished to clients. Tax will only be due on  the amount over and above the cost of the documents. (6) Taxable information services. Information that  is gathered, maintained, or compiled and made available by the provider of  the information service to the public or to a specific segment of industry  for a consideration is subject to sales tax. Examples of taxable information  services include, but are not limited to, the following: (A) newsletters; (B) scouting reports and surveys, including those used in sports  and the oil and gas and related industries; (C) mailing lists, and bad check lists (only that percentage  which represents names of persons located in Texas is taxable); (D) real estate listings; (E) financial, investment, stock market, or bond rating, or  financial reports, other than charges to a person by a financial institution  for account balance information; (F) news clipping services and wire services; and (G) abstracts of title and other information provided by title  plants. (b) Hold permits. All providers of information services must  obtain Texas sales and use tax permits and collect tax on charges for information  services, or accept properly completed resale, exemption, or direct payment  permit certificates in lieu of collecting tax. See §3.285 of this title  (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale); §3.287 of this title  (relating to Exemption Certificates); §3.288 of this title (relating  to Direct Payment Procedures and Qualifications). Effective October 1, 1999,  20% of the total amount charged for information services is exempted from  sales and use tax. The exemption applies to services performed on or after  October 1, 1999. The exemption does not apply to services performed before  the effective date and billed or paid for after the effective date of the  exemption. (c) Exempt information services. Sales tax is not due on information  services sold to a newspaper or to a radio or television station licensed  by the Federal Communications Commission, if an exemption certificate is obtained.  The exemption certificate must state that the purchaser is a newspaper with  a general circulation published at least as frequently as weekly, or is a  station licensed by the Federal Communications Commission. (d) Resale certificates. (1) Providers of information service may issue a resale certificate  in lieu of tax to suppliers of tangible personal property only if care, custody,  and control of the property will be transferred to the service provider's  client. For example, an information provider purchases magnetic tape to transfer  information to customers. The tape is transferred to the customer, and the  customer owns and uses the tape to review the information. The information  provider may purchase the tape tax free by issuing a resale certificate. Tax  is due on the total amount charged the customer, including amounts for the  tape and for the services. (2) A resale certificate may be issued for a service if  the buyer intends to transfer the service as an integral part of taxable services.  A service will be considered an integral part of a taxable service if the  service purchased is essential to the performance of the taxable service and  without which the taxable service could not be rendered. (3) A resale certificate may be issued for a taxable service  if the buyer intends to incorporate the service into tangible personal property  which will be resold. If the entire service is not incorporated into the tangible  personal property, it will be presumed the service is subject to tax and the  service will only be exempt to the extent the buyer can establish the portion  of the service actually incorporated into the tangible personal property.  If the buyer does not intend to incorporate the entire service into the tangible  personal property, no resale certificate may be issued, but credit may be  claimed at the time of sale of the tangible personal property to the extent  the service was actually incorporated into the tangible personal property.  (e) Unrelated services. (1) A service will be considered as unrelated if: (A) it is not an information service nor a service taxed under  other provisions of the Tax Code, Chapter 151; (B) it is of a type which is commonly provided on a stand-alone  basis; and (C) the performance of the unrelated service is distinct and  identifiable. Examples of an unrelated service which may be excluded from  the tax base include consultation, training, expedited filing charges, escrow  fees, or charges for proprietary information. (2) Where nontaxable unrelated services and taxable  services are sold or purchased for a single charge and the portion relating  to taxable services represents more than 5.0% of the total charge, the total  charge is presumed to be taxable. The presumption may be overcome by the information  provider at the time the transaction occurs by separately stating to the customer  a reasonable charge for the taxable services. However, if the charge for the  taxable portion of the services is not separately stated at the time of the  transaction, the service provider or the purchaser may later establish for  the comptroller, through documentary evidence, the percentage of the total  charge that relates to nontaxable unrelated services. The information provider's  books must support the apportionment between exempt and nonexempt activities  based on the cost of providing the service or on a comparison to the normal  charge for each service if provided alone. If the charge for exempt services  is unreasonable when the overall transaction is reviewed considering the cost  of providing the service or a comparable charge made in the industry for each  service, the comptroller will adjust the charges and assess additional tax,  penalty, and interest on the taxable services. (3) Charges for services or expenses directly related  to and incurred while providing the taxable service are taxable and may not  be separated for the purpose of excluding these charges from the tax base.  Examples would be charges for meals, telephone calls, hotel rooms, or airplane  tickets. (f) Service benefit location. If both the information service  provider and the customer are located in Texas, Texas tax is due. (g) Service benefit location - multistate customer. (1) To the extent information service is used to support a  separate, identifiable segment of a customer's business (other than general  administration or operation of the business) the service is presumed to be  used at the location where that part of the business is conducted. (2) If that part of the business is conducted at locations  both within and outside the state, the service is not taxable to the extent  it is used outside Texas. A multistate customer may use any reasonable method  for allocation which is supported by business records. (3) A multistate customer purchasing information services  for the benefit of both in-state and out-of-state locations is responsible  for issuing to the information service provider an exemption certificate asserting  a multistate benefit, and for reporting and paying the tax on that portion  of the charge for information which will benefit the Texas location. An information  provider that accepts such a certificate in good faith is relieved of responsibility  for collecting and remitting tax on transactions to which the certificate  relates. (4) The customer's books must support the assignment of  the service to an identifiable segment of the business, the determination  of the location or locations of the use of the service, and the allocation  of the taxable charge to Texas. (5) To the extent the use of the service cannot be assigned  to an identifiable segment of a customer's business, the service is presumed  to be used to support the administration or operation of the customer's business  generally. The service is presumed to be used at the customer's principal  place of business. The principal place of business means the place from which  the trade or business is directed or managed. (h) Local taxes. (1) For local sales tax purposes, city, county, transit authority,  and special purpose district sales taxes are due if an information provider  has only one place of business (the location where clients request service)  within the boundaries of a local taxing entity. Local sales tax must be collected  based on the tax rate at that location, except that no MTA or CTD sales tax  is due on services provided at a location outside the boundaries of the transit  area. In the case of multiple locations, if an order for service is placed  at one location but the service is provided at another location, the place  of business from which the service is provided will determine to which local  taxing entity the tax is allocated. (2) If a place of business is outside the boundaries of  a local taxing entity, the information provider will be required to collect  local use tax if the client is within the local taxing entity and the information  provider has representation in the local taxing entity as outlined in §3.286  of this title (relating to Seller's and Purchaser's Responsibilities). Even  if the information provider is not required to collect local use tax, the  client is still liable for the tax if the service is performed or a benefit  is derived from the service within the boundaries of a local taxing entity.  (A) An in-state customer purchasing information services for  the benefit of locations in more than one local taxing entity is responsible  for issuing to the information provider an exemption certificate asserting  a multi-city benefit and for determining the extent of benefit for each entity.  The local tax for each entity must be reported, allocated, and paid by the  customer. An information provider that accepts in good faith an exemption  certificate claiming a multi-city benefit is relieved of responsibility for  collecting and remitting local tax on transactions to which the certificate  relates. (B) A multistate customer purchasing information services for  the benefit of both in-state and out-of-state locations is responsible for  issuing an exemption certificate and for reporting and paying local tax as  provided by subsection (f)(3) and (4) of this section. (i) Use tax. If an information provider is not doing business  in Texas or in specific local taxing jurisdictions and is not required to  collect Texas state or local tax, it is the Texas customer's responsibility  to report the state and local use tax directly to this office.
61|§3.343|Credit Reporting Services|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=343|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Credit report--Any written, oral or other compilation of any credit history or other information bearing on a person's credit worthiness, credit standing, credit capacity, or insurability, including information concerning character, general reputation and, if an individual, personal characteristics, medical information, or mode of living. (2) Credit reporting services--The assembly or furnishing, for monetary fees, dues, or other consideration, of a credit report or any part of a credit report. (b) Responsibilities of persons providing credit reporting services. (1) Sales tax is due and must be collected on the total charge for credit reporting activities when: (A) the address of the credit applicant (the subject of the credit report) at the time of the request for a report is in Texas; and (B) the person who requested the credit report is located in Texas or is doing business in Texas as provided in the Tax Code, §151.107. Credit card companies are considered to be doing business in Texas if the financial institution issuing the card is doing business in Texas or if the credit card company is otherwise doing business in Texas. (2) If a seller of a service is not doing business in Texas and is not required to collect Texas tax, it is the Texas customer's responsibility to report the tax directly to this office. (3) Persons providing credit reporting services must obtain a tax permit and collect tax on the entire sales price of their service. (c) Resale certificates. (1) Providers of credit reporting service may issue a resale certificate in lieu of tax to suppliers of tangible personal property only if care, custody, and control of the property is transferred to the client. For example, a taxpayer purchases magnetic tape to transfer the results of a credit report to customers. The tape is transferred to the customer, and the customer owns and uses the tape to review the results of the credit reporting service. Taxpayer may purchase the tape tax free by issuing a resale certificate. Tax is due on the total amount charged the customer, including amounts for the tape and for the services. (2) A resale certificate may be issued for a service if the buyer intends to transfer the service as an integral part of taxable services. A service will be considered an integral part of a taxable service if the service purchased is essential to the performance of the taxable service and without which the taxable service could not be rendered. (3) A resale certificate may be issued for a taxable service if the buyer intends to incorporate the service into tangible personal property which will be resold. If the entire service is not incorporated into the tangible personal property, it will be presumed the service is subject to tax and the service will only be exempt to the extent the buyer can establish the portion of the service actually incorporated into the tangible personal property. If the buyer does not intend to incorporate the entire service into the tangible personal property, no resale certificate may be issued, but credit may be claimed at the time of sale of the tangible personal property to the extent the service was actually incorporated into the tangible personal property. (4) Persons providing credit reporting services may accept a valid exemption certificate in lieu of tax when performing a taxable service for an exempt entity. See §3.322 of this title (relating to Exempt Organizations). (d) Unrelated services. (1) A service will be considered as unrelated if: (A) it is not a credit reporting service nor a service taxed under other provisions of the Tax Code, Chapter 151; (B) it is of a type which is commonly provided on a stand-alone basis; and (C) the performance of the unrelated service is distinct and identifiable. Examples of an unrelated service which may be excluded from the tax base include consultation, training, and charges for proprietary information. (2) Where nontaxable unrelated services and taxable services are sold or purchased for a single charge and the portion relating to taxable services represents more than 5.0% of the total charge, the total charge is presumed to be taxable. The presumption may be overcome by the provider of credit reporting services at the time the transaction occurs by separately stating to the customer a reasonable charge for the taxable services. However, if the charge for the taxable portion of the services is not separately stated at the time of the transaction, the service provider or the purchaser may later establish for the comptroller, through documentary evidence, the percentage of the total charge that relates to nontaxable unrelated services. The service provider's books must support the apportionment between exempt and nonexempt activities based on the cost of providing the service or on a comparison to the normal charge for each service if provided alone. If the charge for exempt services is unreasonable when the overall transaction is reviewed considering the cost of providing the service or a comparable charge made in the industry for each service, the comptroller will adjust the charges and assess additional tax, penalty, and interest on the taxable services. (3) Charges for services or expenses directly related to and incurred while providing the taxable service are taxable and may not be separated for the purpose of excluding these charges from the tax base. Examples would be charges for meals, telephone calls, hotel rooms, or airplane tickets. (e) Service benefit location. If both the credit grantor and the credit applicant are located in Texas, Texas sales tax is due. (f) Service benefit location--multistate customer. (1) To the extent a credit reporting service is used to support a separate, identifiable segment of a customer's business (other than general administration or operation of the business) the service is presumed to be used at the location where that part of the business is conducted. (2) If that part of the business is conducted at locations both within and outside the state, the service is not taxable to the extent it is used outside Texas. A multistate customer may use any reasonable method for allocation which is supported by business records. (3) A multistate customer purchasing credit reporting services for the benefit of both in-state and out-of-state locations is responsible for issuing to the credit reporting entity an exemption certificate asserting a multistate benefit, and for reporting and paying the tax on that portion of the credit reporting charge which will benefit the Texas location. A provider of credit reports that accepts such a certificate in good faith is relieved of responsibility for collecting and remitting tax on transactions to which the certificate relates. (4) The customer's books must support the assignment of the service to an identifiable segment of the business, the determination of the location or locations of the use of the service, and the allocation of the taxable charge to Texas. (5) To the extent the use of the service cannot be assigned to an identifiable segment of a customer's business, the service is presumed to be used to support the administration or operation of the customer's business generally. The service is presumed to be used at the customer's principal place of business. The principal place of business means the place from which the trade or business is directed or managed. (g) Local tax. (1) For local sales tax purposes, city, county, transit authority, and special purpose district sales taxes are due if a provider of credit reports has only one place of business (the location where clients request service) within the boundaries of a local taxing entity. Local tax must be collected based upon the tax rate at that location, except that no MTA or CTD sales tax is due on services provided at a location outside the boundaries of the transit area. In the case of multiple locations, if an order for service is placed at one location but the service is provided at another location, the place of business from which the service is provided will determine to which local taxing entity the tax is allocated.  (2) For the purposes of the local use tax, if a place of business is outside the boundaries of a local taxing entity, the service provider will be required to collect local use tax if the client is within the local taxing entity and the service provider has representation in the local taxing entity as outlined in §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller's and Purchaser's Responsibilities). Even if the service provider is not required to collect local use tax, the client is still liable for the tax if the service is performed or a benefit is derived from the service within the boundaries of a local taxing entity. (A) An in-state customer purchasing credit reporting services for the benefit of locations in more than one local taxing entity is responsible for issuing to the provider of credit reporting services an exemption certificate asserting a multi-city benefit and for determining the extent of benefit for each entity. The local use tax for each entity must be reported, allocated and paid by the customer. A provider of credit reporting service that accepts in good faith an exemption certificate claiming a multi-city benefit is relieved of responsibility for collecting and remitting local tax on transactions to which the certificate relates. (B) A multistate customer purchasing credit reporting services for the benefit of both in-state and out-of-state locations is responsible for issuing an exemption certificate and for reporting and paying local tax as provided by subsection (f)(3) and (4) of this section. (h) Use tax. If a seller of a service is not doing business in Texas or in specific local taxing jurisdictions and is not required to collect Texas tax, it is the Texas customer's responsibility to report and pay the state and local use tax directly to this office.
62|§3.344|Telecommunications Services|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=344|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Basic local exchange telephone service--The provision  by a telephone company of each access line and each dial tone to a  fixed location for sending and receiving telecommunications in the  telephone company\'s local exchange network. Services are considered  basic irrespective of whether the customer has access to a private  or party line, or whether the customer has limited or unlimited access.  The term does not include international, interstate, or intrastate  long-distance telecommunications services or mobile telecommunications  services. (2) Internet--Collectively the myriad of computer and  telecommunications facilities, including equipment and operating software,  that comprise the interconnected worldwide network of networks that  employ the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol, or any  predecessor or successor protocols to the protocol, to communicate  information of all kinds by wire or radio. (3) Internet access service--A service that enables  users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services  offered over the Internet and may also include access to proprietary  content, information, and other services as part of a package of services  offered to consumers. The term does not include telecommunications  services. See §3.366 of this title (relating to Internet Access  Services). (4) Interstate long-distance telecommunication service--A  telecommunication service that originates in one state, crosses state  lines, and terminates in another state. (5) Intrastate long-distance telecommunications service--A  telecommunication service that originates and terminates within one  state, but crosses the boundaries on subdivisions or jurisdictions  within the state. (6) Mobile telecommunications service--The provision  of a commercial mobile radio service, as defined in 47 C.F.R. 20.3  of the Federal Communications Commission\'s (FCC) regulations in effect  on June 1, 1999 under the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4  U.S.C. §§116-126). The term includes cellular telecommunications  services, personal communications services (PCS), specialized mobile  radio services, wireless voice over Internet protocol services, and  paging services. The term does not include telephone prepaid calling  cards or air-ground radio telephone services as defined in 47 C.F.R.  22.99 of FCC regulations in effect on June 1, 1999. (7) Pay telephone coin sent--Telecommunications service  paid for by the insertion of coins into a coin-operated telephone. (8) Place of primary use--The physical street address  that is representative of where a customer primarily uses a mobile  telecommunications service. That location must be either the customer\'s  residential street address or the customer\'s primary business street  address that is within the licensed service area of the service provider.  The individual or entity that contracts with the service provider  is the customer. If the individual or entity that contracts with the  service provider is not the end user, then the physical street address  where the end user primarily uses the service determines the customer\'s  place of primary use. For example, a business owner who is located  in Austin, Texas establishes mobile telecommunication service accounts  for employees who are located in other cities. One employee does business  from his home in Dallas, Texas. Two other employees work at an office  that is located in Houston, Texas. Another employee works at an office  that is located in New Orleans, Louisiana. The home street address  of the employee in Dallas is the place of primary use for that cellular  phone account. The place of primary use for the two Houston employees  is the street address of the Houston office. The place of primary  use for the employee in Louisiana is the street address of the New  Orleans office. (9) Prepaid telecommunications service--A wireless  or wire telecommunications service for which the provider requires  a customer to prepay the full amount prior to provision of the service.  The term does not include the sale or use of a telephone prepaid calling  card as defined in paragraph (15) of this subsection. A card, pin  number, access code or similar device that allows a user to access  only a specific network, or that is intended for use with a specific  user account or device (e.g., to add more minutes to an existing account)  is a prepaid telecommunications service and is taxed as the sale of  a telecommunications service. Local sales tax is collected as explained  in subsection (h) of this section. (10) Private communication service--A telecommunication  service that entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of  a communications channel or group of channels between or among termination  points, regardless of the manner in which such channel or channels  are connected, and includes switching capacity, extension lines, stations,  and any other associated services that are provided in connection  with the use of such channel or channels. (A) As it relates to private communication service,  the term ""communications channel"" means a physical or virtual path  of communications over which signals are transmitted between or among  customer channel termination points. (B) As it relates to private communication service,  the term ""customer channel termination point"" means the location where  the customer either inputs or receives the communications. (11) Seller--Any person who sells telecommunications  services including a hotel, motel, owner or lessor of an office, residential  building or development that contracts and pays for telecommunications  services for resale to guests or tenants. (12) Taxable service--A telecommunications service  or other taxable service listed in Tax Code, §151.0101. (13) Telecommunications services--The electronic or  electrical transmission, conveyance, routing, or reception of sounds,  signals, data, or information utilizing wires, cable, radio waves,  microwaves, satellites, fiber optics, Voice over Internet Protocol  (VoIP), or any other method now in existence or that may be devised,  including but not limited to long-distance telephone service. The  term includes mobile telecommunications services and prepaid telecommunications  services. The term does not include: (A) the storage of data or other information for subsequent  retrieval or the processing, or reception and processing, of data  or information intended to change its form or content; (B) the sale or use of a telephone prepaid calling  card; (C) Internet access service; or (D) pay telephone coin sent. (14) Telephone company--A person who owns or operates  a telephone line or telephone in this state and charges for its use. (15) Telephone prepaid calling card--A card or other  item, including an access code, that represents the right to access  telecommunications services, other than prepaid telecommunications  services as defined in paragraph (9) of this subsection, through multiple  devices, regardless of the network providing direct service to the  device used, for which payment is made in incremental amounts and  before the call or transmission is initiated. For example, a calling  card that allows a user to access a long distance telecommunications  network for the purpose of making international calls through a pay  phone is a telephone prepaid calling card. The sale of a telephone  prepaid calling card is taxed as the sale of tangible personal property. (16) Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP)--A telecommunication  service where a phone call is transmitted over a data network. The  term ""Internet Protocol"" is a catchall phrase for the protocols and  technologies of encoding a voice call that allow the voice call to  be slotted in between data on a data network, including the Internet,  a company\'s Intranet, or any other type of data network. (b) Taxable telecommunications services. The total  amount charged for a taxable telecommunications service is subject  to sales tax. Sales tax is due on a charge for the following: (1) basic local exchange telephone services; (2) enhanced services such as metro service, extended  area service, multiline hunting, and PBX trunk; (3) auxiliary services such as call waiting and call  forwarding; (4) intrastate long-distance telecommunications services; (5) interstate long-distance telecommunications services  that are both originated from, and billed to, a telephone number or  billing or service address within Texas such that if a call originates  in Texas and is billed to a Texas service address, the charge is taxable  even if the invoice, statement, or other demand for payment is sent  to an address in another state; (6) mobile telecommunications services for which the  place of primary use is located in Texas; (7) telegraph services that are both originated from,  and billed to, a person within Texas; (8) a telecommunications service paid for by the insertion  of tokens, credit or debit card into a coin-operated telephone located  in Texas; (9) subject to subsection (e) of this section, the  lease, rental, or other charges for telecommunication equipment including  separately stated installation charges. Separately stated charges  for labor to install wiring will not be taxable if the wiring is installed  in new structures or residences in such manner as to become a part  of the realty. Separately stated charges for labor to install wiring  in existing nonresidential real property are taxable. See §3.291  and §3.357 of this title (relating to Contractors; Nonresidential  Real Property Repair, Remodeling, and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance)  for additional information. If charges for the installation of wiring  and charges for the equipment are not separated, the total charge  will be treated as a sale and installation of tangible personal property.  Equipment sold by a telecommunications service provider is subject  to sales or use tax and is not taxed as part of the telecommunications  service if the service provider separately invoices the sale of the  equipment. The sale of equipment is not separately invoiced if it  is identified on the same bill, receipt or invoice as the sale of  the telecommunications service, even if it is identified as a separate  line item on the same bill, receipt, or invoice; (10) installation of telecommunications services, including  service connection fees; (11) private communication services. Taxable receipts  include the channel termination charge imposed at each channel termination  point within this state, the total channel mileage charges imposed  between channel termination points or relay points within this state,  and an apportionment of the interoffice channel mileage charge that  crosses the state border. An apportionment on the basis of the ratio  of the miles between the last channel termination point in Texas and  the state border to the total miles between that channel termination  point and the next channel termination point in the route will be  accepted. If there is a single charge for a private communication  service in which the customer has channel termination points both  inside and outside of Texas, the apportionment can also be determined  by dividing the number of customer channel termination points in Texas  by the total number of customer channel termination points to establish  the percentage of the charge subject to state sales tax for Texas.  Other apportionment methods may be used by the seller if first approved  in writing by the comptroller; (12) charges that are passed through to a purchaser  for federal, state, or local taxes or fees that are imposed on the  seller of the telecommunications service rather than on the purchaser.  Such charges are a cost or expense of the seller and are included  in the total price subject to sales tax; and (13) prepaid wireless telecommunications services as  defined by subsection (a)(9) of this section when the purchase is  made in person at a Texas business or is made by telephone or the  Internet and the purchaser\'s primary business address or residential  address is in Texas. (c) Nontaxable or exempt charges. Sales tax is not  due on charges for: (1) interstate long-distance telecommunications services  that are not both originated from, and billed to, a telephone number  or billing or service address within Texas. Records must clearly distinguish  between taxable and exempt long-distance services; (2) broadcasts by commercial radio or television stations  licensed or regulated by the FCC. See §3.313 of this title (relating  to Cable Television Service and Bundle Cable Service) for the tax  status of cable television services; (3) telecommunications services purchased for resale; (4) telegraph services that are not both originated  from and billed to a person within Texas; (5) mobile telecommunications services for which the  place of primary use is located outside of Texas; (6) charges for federal, state, or local taxes or fees  that are imposed on the purchaser rather than on the seller of the  telecommunications service. For example, no sales tax is due on a  separately stated charge for federal excise tax or for 9-1-1 Emergency  Service Fee and 9-1-1 Equalization Surcharge because these taxes or  fees are imposed on the purchaser and are not a cost of doing business  of the seller; and Cont\'d...', ""(7) telecommunications services exclusively provided  or used for the navigation of machinery and equipment exclusively  used or employed on a farm or ranch in the building or maintaining  of roads or water facilities or in the production of:  (A) food for human consumption;  (B) grass;  (C) feed for animal life; or  (D) other agricultural products to be sold in the regular  course of business.  (E) The purchaser must be an agricultural registrant  and provide the seller with an agricultural exemption certificate.  (F) This paragraph is effective September 1, 2015,  and applies to telecommunication services provided after this date.  (d) Billing and records requirements. If any nontaxable  charges are combined with and not separately stated from taxable telecommunications  service charges on the purchaser's bill or invoice from a provider  of telecommunications services, the combined charge is subject to  tax unless the service provider can identify the portion of the charges  that are nontaxable through the provider's books and records kept  in the regular course of business. If the nontaxable charges cannot  reasonably be identified, the charges from the sale of both nontaxable  services and taxable telecommunications services are attributable  to taxable telecommunications services. The provider of telecommunications  services has the burden of proving nontaxable charges. (e) Resale of tangible personal property. See §3.285  of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale). (1) Transfer of tangible personal property to the care,  custody and control of the purchaser. A telecommunications service  provider may claim a resale exemption on the purchase of tangible  personal property that is transferred by the telecommunications service  provider to the care, custody, and control of the purchaser. A telecommunications  service provider must collect sales tax on charges for such items. (2) Wireless voice communication devices. A person  may claim a resale exemption on the purchase of a cell phone or other  wireless voice communication device as an integral part of a taxable  service, regardless of whether there is a separate charge for the  wireless voice communication device or whether the purchaser is the  provider of the taxable telecommunications service, if payment for  the service is a condition for receiving the wireless voice communication  device. For example, if a person signs a contract for the purchase  of telecommunications services at the location of a retailer and the  retailer sells the person a cell phone as a condition of entering  the contract for the telecommunications services that will be provided  by someone other than the retailer, the retailer can purchase the  cell phone tax free with a properly completed resale certificate. (f) Resale of a telecommunications service. See §3.285  of this title. (1) Sales tax is not due on the charge by one telephone  company to another for providing access to a local exchange network.  The telecommunications service provider must collect sales tax from  the final purchaser on the total charge for the taxable service including  the charge for access. (2) A telecommunications service may be purchased tax  free for resale if resold by the purchaser as an integral part of  a taxable service. The purchaser must give the service provider a  properly completed resale certificate to purchase the telecommunications  service tax free for resale. A telecommunications service is an integral  part of a taxable service if the telecommunications service is essential  to the performance of the taxable service and without which the taxable  service could not be rendered. For example, an Internet access service  provider (ISP) may give a resale certificate when purchasing the dedicated  dial-up line services to be used by the ISP's customers. However,  the ISP must pay sales tax when purchasing its own personal or business  use of telecommunications services such as charges for its office  phone lines, mobile telecommunications services for its traveling  salespersons, or for a customer service call-center. (3) A mobile telecommunications service provider may  purchase roaming services from another mobile telecommunications service  provider tax free for resale to its customers that are using the roaming  services. For example, an out-of-state mobile telecommunications service  provider purchases roaming services in Texas for resale to its out-of-state  customers (i.e., persons who have a place of primary use outside Texas).  To be exempt from sales tax, the out-of-state mobile telecommunications  service provider must give the seller of the roaming services a resale  certificate showing either a Texas sales tax permit number or the  sales tax permit number or registration number issued by its home  state. Effective for billing periods that begin on or after August  1, 2002, these out-of-state customers do not owe Texas sales tax on  roaming charges incurred while visiting or traveling through Texas. (g) Taxable purchases. Subject to the provisions of  subsections (e) and (f) of this section, a telecommunications service  provider owes sales or use tax on all tangible personal property and  services that are used to provide the service. See §3.346 of  this title (relating to Use Tax), §3.281 of this title (relating  to Records Required; Information Required), and §3.282 of this  title (relating to Auditing Taxpayer Records). (h) Local tax. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) of this  subsection, jurisdictions that impose local sales and use taxes may  repeal the local sales tax exemption on telecommunications services.  See Publication 96-339 (Jurisdictions That Impose Local Sales Tax  on Telecommunications Services) for a list of jurisdictions that impose  local taxes on telecommunications services. (2) Taxable interstate long-distance telecommunications  are only subject to state sales tax. Local taxing jurisdictions may  not repeal the local sales tax exemption on interstate long-distance  telecommunications services. (3) A seller of taxable telecommunications services,  with the exception of mobile telecommunications services as explained  in paragraph (4) of this subsection and prepaid wireless telecommunications  services as explained in paragraph (6) of this subsection, must collect  local sales taxes based on the location from which the telecommunications  service originates. If the point of origin cannot be determined, the  telecommunications service provider must collect local taxes based  on the address to which the telecommunications service is billed. (4) A seller of mobile telecommunications services  must collect local sales taxes based on the place of primary use as  defined in subsection (a)(8) of this section and per Tax Code, §151.061.  The location from which a mobile telecommunications service originates  does not determine whether the service is exempt or is subject to  state or local sales tax. (5) A seller of telephone prepaid calling cards is  not selling a telecommunications service and must collect state and  local sales or use tax on the sale of the cards in the same manner  as sales of other tangible personal property. (6) A seller of prepaid wireless telecommunications  services as defined in subsection (a)(9) of this section must collect  local tax based on the business address of the seller when the sale  occurs in Texas in person. However, if the sale occurs over the telephone  or Internet, tax is due if the primary business address of the purchaser  or residential address of the purchaser is in Texas."
63|§3.345|Annual Refund Program for Providers of Cable Television, Internet Access, or Telecommunications Services|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=345|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Cable television services--This term has the meaning  as assigned by §3.313 of this title (relating to Cable Television  Services). (2) Data processing services--This term has the meaning  as assigned by §3.330 of this title (relating to Data Processing  Services). (3) In or during--Within the course of an actual activity,  such as transmission or routing. For example, a cable carrying a cable  television services' signal to a customer's home is used in or during  the conveyance of the signal in order to provide cable television  services. In contrast, equipment merely used while the cable is carrying  the signal, such as office furniture or an air conditioning system,  is not used in or during the conveyance of the services. (4) Information services--This term has the same meaning  as assigned by §3.342 of this title (relating to Information  Services). (5) Internet access services--This term has the same  meaning as assigned by §3.366 of this title (relating to Internet  Access Services). (6) Provider--A seller, as defined by §3.286 of  this title (relating to Seller's and Purchaser's Responsibilities,  including Nexus, Permits, Returns and Reporting Periods, Collection  and Exemption Rules, and Criminal Penalties) and §3.344 of this  title (relating to Telecommunications Services), who supplies or otherwise  makes available cable television services, Internet access services,  or telecommunications services to the public, or a segment of the  public, for consideration. (7) Qualifying purchase--Tangible personal property:  (A) purchased, leased, or rented by a provider or a  subsidiary of a provider on which sales and use tax was paid by the  provider or the subsidiary; and (B) that is directly used or consumed by the provider  or the subsidiary in or during: (i) the distribution of cable television services by  the sending or relaying of video programming for the fulfillment of  cable television services, to subscribing or paying customers; (ii) the provision of Internet access services by making  available to the public, or a segment of the public, for consideration  the means or method by which users can connect individual computer  terminals, computers, mobile devices, or computer networks to the  Internet; or (iii) the transmission by the process of creating,  converting, sending, or propagating, for reception elsewhere, sounds  or symbols into an analog or digital information signal, by telegraph,  telephone, satellite, facsimile, or any other method now in existence  or that may be devised, including Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP),  via any medium, such as wire, coaxial cable, microwave, optical fiber,  or radio frequency; conveyance by the carriage, as by an outdoor telephone  line or a satellite beam; routing by the selection of conveyance pathways;  or reception by the acquisition, as by a satellite dish, of a telecommunications  services' signal, where the transmission, conveyance, routing, or  reception is specific to the direct provision of the services to the  customer or a general or limited area, whether the signal remains  in its original form or is subsequently amplified, filtered, encoded,  decoded, or otherwise altered. (C) Qualifying purchases do not include supporting  or ancillary functions, such as office operations, field operations,  marketing, transportation, warehousing, data storage, or similar operations  that do not directly result in the distribution of cable television  services; the provision of Internet access services; or the transmission,  conveyance, routing, or reception of telecommunications services.  (8) Refund request date--  (A) September 2, 2014, for tax paid September 1, 2013,  through December 31, 2013, on qualifying purchases made on or after  September 1, 2013. (B) For tax paid on or after January 1, 2014, on qualifying  purchases made on or after September 1, 2013, March 31 of the year  immediately following the calendar year in which the tax was paid.  If March 31 falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the refund  request date will be the next business day. For example, a refund  request for taxes paid during calendar year 2014 on qualifying purchases  made on or after September 1, 2013, is due by March 31, 2015. (9) Requestor--The provider or subsidiary of a provider  submitting the refund request. (10) Subsidiary of a provider--A subsidiary, as defined  in Business Organizations Code, §1.002(85), for which a cable  television service provider, Internet access service provider, or  telecommunications service provider is the parent, as that term is  defined in Business Organizations Code, §1.002(65). (11) Telecommunications services--This term has the  same meaning as assigned by §3.344 of this title. (b) Persons eligible for refund request. Providers  of cable television, Internet access, and telecommunications services  and their subsidiaries are entitled to request a refund under this  section. (c) Sales and use tax eligible for refund. (1) State sales and use taxes paid on qualifying purchases  made on or after September 1, 2013, are eligible for a refund under  this section. (2) Local sales and use taxes are not eligible for  a refund under this section. (3) Sales and use taxes paid on property directly used  or consumed in or during the provision, creation, or production of  data processing services or information services are not eligible  for a refund under this section, except when those services are provided  in conjunction with and are merely incidental to the provision of  Internet access services, as set out in §3.366(a)(2) of this  title. (d) Request for refund. (1) The total amount of state sales and use tax that  can be refunded to all requestors pursuant to this section for any  one calendar year is $50 million. (2) Each requestor must file the refund request electronically  or in the format prescribed by the comptroller. The postmark date  or its electronic equivalent on a refund request determines the filing  date. (A) A requestor required to file a refund request electronically  who is unable to do so due to hardship, impracticality, or other valid  reason may submit a written request to the comptroller for a waiver  of the requirement and authorization of an alternative filing method.  A waiver must be requested no later than 30 days prior to the refund  request date. If the 30th day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal  holiday, the waiver must be requested by the next business day. (B) A requestor filing a refund request electronically  may use an application provided by the comptroller, software provided  by the comptroller, or commercially available software that satisfies  requirements prescribed by the comptroller. (3) The refund request must contain the following information  for each transaction for which a refund of sales and use taxes is  requested: (A) the requestor's name, address, and taxpayer identification  number; (B) if the requestor is a subsidiary of a provider,  the parent provider's name, address, and taxpayer identification number;  (C) identification of the provider's industry as either,  cable television service, Internet access service, or telecommunications  service; (D) the name, address, and taxpayer identification  number of the seller of the qualifying purchase for each identified  transaction; (E) the invoice number, if applicable, for each identified  transaction; (F) the amount of sales and use tax paid on the qualifying  purchase and the manner in which the tax was paid, such as accrued  and paid by the provider or paid to the seller; (G) the date of each transaction; (H) a description of each item, or like items, purchased;  (I) the purchase amount of each item subject to refund;  and (J) the total amount of sales and use tax refund requested  per item identified. (4) A refund request submitted pursuant to this section  is subject to audit verification. (A) Additional information may be requested during  the verification process. (B) If the comptroller requests in writing additional  information, the person requesting the refund must submit the requested  information within 30 calendar days. (C) A request will be reduced by a determination that  the request includes: (i) items that are not qualifying purchases; (ii) items on which no sales or use tax was paid; (iii) items without supporting documentation; or (iv) items for which additional information requested  by the comptroller was not received within 30 calendar days, as required  by this subsection. (5) Tax Code, §151.3186 does not provide for a  refund of interest and therefore no interest will be paid on refunds  requested under this section. (6) Multiple refunds on the same items are not allowed.  Requestors may not seek a refund or credit under another provision  of Tax Code, Chapter 151 for any item on which sales or use tax was  paid and for which a refund was requested under this section unless  the refund request under this section for the specific item was denied  in full. (e) Requests for refund filed by the applicable refund  request date. (1) The maximum amount each requestor can be refunded  under this section is equal to: (A) the cumulative amount of state sales and use tax  paid by the requestor on qualifying property during the calendar year  immediately preceding the refund request date, if the total amount  of eligible state sales and use tax refund requests by all requestors  for which a refund is approved under this section is equal to or less  than $50 million for the calendar year; or (B) a pro-rated amount of the state sales and use tax  paid by the requestor on qualifying property during the calendar year  immediately preceding the refund request date, if the total amount  of eligible sales and use tax refund requests by all requestors received  by the refund request date for which a refund is approved under this  section exceeds $50 million for the calendar year. (2) By no later than December 31, 2014, for the refund  request date of September 2, 2014, or thereafter by August 31 for  the refund request date of March 31: (A) the comptroller will issue a warrant to each requestor  whose refund claim is approved in whole or in part. The warrant will  be equal to: (i) the total refund amount approved for the requestor,  if the total amount of eligible requests for refund is less than or  equal to $50 million; or (ii) if the total amount of eligible requests for refund  is greater than $50 million, a pro-rated amount of the $50 million  calculated by dividing each requestor's approved refund amount by  the total amount of eligible requests for refund; and (B) if the refund request is denied in full or in part,  the comptroller will issue a notice advising the requestor: (i) that the refund request was denied, in whole or  in part; and (ii) of the requirements of subsection (d)(3) of this  section that were not met. (3) The comptroller will not issue an initial refund  to a requestor whose refund request is denied in full. (4) Requestors whose refund requests are denied, in  full or in part, may request a refund hearing within 30 days of notice  from the comptroller as set out in §3.325(e) of this title (relating  to Refunds and Payments Under Protest). (5) Final refund payments will be issued to all eligible  requestors once all refund hearings or judicial proceedings related  to the same refund request date filed in accordance with Tax Code,  Chapter 112, if any, are final. (A) If the total of all approved refunds is less than  or equal to $50 million, each requestor will be issued a final refund  payment equal to the requestor's final approved refund amount, less  any initial refund payment issued. (B) If the total of all approved refunds is greater  than $50 million, the pro rata distribution formula will be recalculated  to determine the total amount of refund due to each requestor for  their approved claim as a percentage of all approved claims. Final  payments will be issued based on the final pro rata distribution formula  less any initial refund payment issued. (C) In no case shall the total amount of refund issued  to a requestor exceed the requested amount in the requestor's refund  request. (6) A refund request filed by the applicable refund  request date cannot be amended after the applicable refund request  date. If a requestor submits additional items after the applicable  refund request date, the additional items will be considered a separate  refund request and will be processed according to subsection (f) of  this section. (f) Requests for refund filed after the applicable  refund request date. (1) If the total amount of eligible requests for the  applicable refund period received by the applicable refund request  date is less than $50 million, the comptroller will issue a warrant  to each late-filed requestor whose refund claim is approved in full  or in part, on a first-come-first-served basis. Requestors whose refund  requests are denied, in full or in part, under this paragraph may  request a hearing under subsection (e)(4) of this section. (2) If the total amount of eligible requests for the  applicable refund period received by the applicable refund request  date is greater than $50 million, the late-filed request for refund  will be denied for lack of funds. Any denial under this paragraph  is not eligible for a hearing under subsection (e)(4) of this section.
64|§3.346|Use Tax|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=346|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Storage--The keeping or retention of tangible personal  property in Texas for any purpose other than:  (A) transporting property out of state to a location  outside Texas for use solely outside of Texas; or  (B) processing, fabricating, or manufacturing of tangible  personal property into other property or attaching the tangible personal  property to or incorporating the tangible personal property into other  property that will be transported outside Texas for use solely outside  of Texas.  (2) Use--The exercise of a right or power incidental  to the ownership of tangible personal property over tangible personal  property, including tangible personal property other than printed  material that has been processed, fabricated, or manufactured into  other property or attached to or incorporated into other property  transported into this state. With respect to a taxable service, use  means the derivation in this state of direct or indirect benefit from  the service. The term does not include the following:  (A) the sale of tangible personal property or a taxable  service in the regular course of business;  (B) the transfer of a taxable service as an integral  part of the transfer of tangible personal property in the regular  course of business;  (C) the transfer of tangible personal property as an  integral part of the transfer of a taxable service in the regular  course of business;  (D) the exercise of a right or power over tangible  personal property for the purpose of subsequently transporting the  property outside Texas for use solely outside of Texas; or  (E) the exercise of a right or power over tangible  personal property for the purpose of processing, fabricating, or manufacturing  of tangible personal property into other property or attaching the  tangible personal property to or incorporating the tangible personal  property into other property that will be transported outside Texas  for use solely outside of Texas.  (3) Use tax--A nonrecurring tax that is complementary  to the sales tax and is imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption  of a taxable item in this state.  (b) Imposition of the use tax.  (1) Out-of-state purchases. Use tax is due on taxable  items purchased out of state that are stored, used or consumed in  Texas.  (2) Direct payment permit purchases. Use tax is due  on taxable items purchased under a direct payment permit that are  stored, used or consumed in Texas. See §3.288 of this title (relating  to Direct Payment Procedures and Qualifications) and subsection (g)  of this section.  (3) Construction contracts.  (A) Use tax is due on taxable items used, consumed  or incorporated into real property in Texas by a contractor in the  performance of a lump-sum contract for construction of a new improvement  to realty or for repair and remodeling of a residential improvement  to realty. See §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors).  (B) Use tax is due on taxable items used or consumed  in Texas by a person in the performance of a lump sum or separated  contract for nonresidential repair or remodeling, or in the performance  of a separated contract for construction of a new improvement to realty  or for repair or remodeling of a residential improvement to realty.  See §3.357 of this title (relating to Nonresidential Real Property  Repair, Remodeling, and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance) and §3.291  of this title.  (4) Shipments of taxable items from out-of-state suppliers  and sellers to purchaser's designees. Use tax is due on taxable items,  such as gifts, catalogs and promotional goods purchased outside this  state by a purchaser engaged in business in this state if the taxable  items are delivered at the direction of the purchaser to a location  in Texas designated by the purchaser.  (A) A purchaser is engaged in business in Texas if  the purchaser is required to collect sales or use tax under Tax Code,  Chapter 151 or if the purchaser has nexus or is engaged in business  in Texas as defined in §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller's  and Purchaser's Responsibilities, including Nexus, Permits, Returns  and Reporting Periods, Collection and Exemption Rules, and Criminal  Penalties).  (B) Local use taxes (city, county, transit, special  purpose district) are also due, but only to the extent that the purchaser  is engaged in business in the local taxing jurisdictions into which  deliveries are made.  (5) Raw materials manufactured or incorporated into  other tangible personal property. Use tax is due on raw materials  (tangible personal property), other than printed materials as provided  under paragraph (6) of this subsection, purchased outside this state  that have been processed, fabricated, or manufactured into other property  or attached to or incorporated into other property outside this state  and subsequently transported into this state, and, except as provided  by Tax Code, §151.056(b) regarding property incorporated under  a separated contract for the improvement of realty, includes the incorporation  of tangible personal property into real estate or into improvements  of real estate whether or not the real estate is subsequently sold.  (6) Printed materials.  (A) Use tax is due on the total cost of printed materials,  including printing, paper and ink, purchased out of state, such as  a book, brochure or catalog, and then shipped or delivered into Texas.  An example of such printed material is a catalog where either the  purchaser or the printer of the catalog first purchased ink and paper  outside of Texas that was then printed and bound before being mailed  to Texas residents in the form of a catalog. The item being used by  the purchaser in this state is the catalog and since the catalog is  not incorporated into another item, use tax is due on the total cost  of the catalogs delivered into Texas.  (B) Use tax does not apply to printed materials purchased  outside of this state that have been processed, fabricated, or manufactured  into other property or attached to or incorporated into other property  transported into this state. An example would include the purchase  of printed pages by a Texas customer from an out-of-state printer  who ships the items directly to another out-of-state firm that binds  the items into a manual or book. The charge by the out-of-state binder  to the Texas customer is subject to tax. The charge by the vendor  that sold the printed materials to the Texas customer is not taxable  since the printed materials have been processed, fabricated, or manufactured  into other property or attached to or incorporated into other property  transported into this state.  (7) Occasional sales.  (A) A person who holds or is required to hold a sales  and use tax permit must accrue use tax on the purchase of a taxable  item from a person entitled to the occasional sale exemption from  sales tax provided by Tax Code, §151.304(b)(1) and remit it to  the comptroller. Tax Code, §151.304(b)(1) relates to one or two  sales during a 12-month period by a person who does not habitually  engage, or hold himself out as engaging, in the business of selling  taxable items at retail.  (B) A purchaser who holds or is required to hold a  sales and use tax permit is not required to accrue use tax and remit  it to the comptroller on a purchase from a person entitled to claim  the occasional sales exemption from sales tax provided by Tax Code, §151.304(b)(2)  - (5). Tax Code, §151.304(b)(2) relates to the sale of the entire  operating assets of a business or of a separate division, branch,  or identifiable segment of a business; Tax Code, §151.304(b)(3)  relates to the transfer of all or substantially all the property used  by a person in the course of an activity if after the transfer the  real or ultimate ownership of the property is substantially similar  to that which existed before the transfer; Tax Code, §151.304(b)(4)  relates to the sale of not more than 10 admissions for amusement services  during a 12-month period by a person who does not hold himself out  as engaging, or does not habitually engage, in providing amusement  services; Tax Code, §151.304(b)(5) relates to sales of items  purchased for use by an individual who does not hold, and is not required  to obtain a sales and use tax permit. In order to be exempt from sales  tax, total sales by the individual must not exceed $3,000 per calendar  year. See §3.316 of this title (relating to Occasional Sales;  Joint Ownership Transfers; Sales by Senior Citizens' Organizations;  Sales by University and College Student Organizations; and Sales by  Nonprofit Animal Shelters).  (c) Inapplicability of use tax.  (1) Use tax is not applicable if the purchaser of a  taxable item paid sales tax to a Texas seller or owes sales tax to  a Texas seller who failed to collect it. The comptroller may proceed  against the seller or the purchaser for the sales tax owed by either.  (2) Use tax is not applicable to the storage, use,  or other consumption of taxable items in this state if the sale, lease,  or rental of the taxable items would be exempt from the sales tax  had the items been purchased within Texas.  (d) User liability, payment of the tax and credit for  tax paid to another state.  (1) The person storing, using, or consuming a taxable  item in this state is liable for the tax imposed under this section,  and except as provided by paragraph (2) of this subsection, the liability  continues until the tax is paid to the state.  (2) The liability may be extinguished by payment of  the Texas use tax directly to the comptroller or to a seller authorized  to collect it. See the use tax permit requirements for out-of-state  sellers in §3.286 of this title.  (3) The basis of the use tax is the total purchase  price of the taxable item, including any related charges such as shipping  and handling fees, regardless of whether such fees are separately  stated. See §3.303 of this title (relating to Transportation  and Delivery Charges).  (4) The tax must be reported and remitted to the comptroller  with the return covering the period in which the taxable items are  first stored, used, or otherwise consumed in Texas as provided by §3.286  of this title. Purchasers without a sales and use tax permit should  refer to §3.286 of this title to view the tax responsibilities  of non-permitted purchasers.  (5) Credit is allowed against the use tax liability  to the extent that a similar sales or use tax was legally due and  paid to another state under the conditions provided in Tax Code, Chapter  141 and Chapter 151, §151.303. See §3.338 of this title  (relating to Multistate Tax Credits and Allowance of Credit for Tax  Paid to Suppliers).  (e) Presumption.  (1) Tangible personal property that is shipped or brought  into this state by, or at the direction of, a purchaser is presumed,  in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have been purchased  from a seller for storage, use, or consumption in this state. A taxable  service used in this state is presumed, in the absence of evidence  to the contrary, to have been purchased from a seller for use in this  state.  (2) Tangible personal property purchased out of state  and used for its intended purpose outside of Texas for more than one  year before the date of entry into Texas will not be presumed to have  been purchased for use in Texas. This presumption applies only if  the use outside Texas is substantial and constitutes a primary use  for which the property was purchased. Either the comptroller or the  purchaser may introduce evidence to establish the intent or absence  of intent to use the taxable items in Texas at the time of purchase.  (3) If tangible personal property is shipped outside  of Texas by the seller such that the transaction is exempt from sales  tax under Tax Code, §151.330(a), and the property is outside  of Texas for less than one year before reentering Texas, the presumption  is that the property is purchased for use in Texas.  (f) Local use tax is due to the jurisdictions where  taxable items are first stored, used, or consumed.  (g) Direct payment permit holders - election to pay  use tax at time of first storage or upon first removal from storage  for use in Texas. If, at the time an item is purchased and stored  in the state, it is not known if the item will be used in Texas or  removed from the state for use elsewhere, a direct payment permit  holder can elect to either pay state and local use tax at the time  an item is first removed from storage for use in Texas or elect to  pay state and local use tax on the item when first stored in Texas.  This election must consistently apply to all stored items once the  election is made and consistently apply to all state and local taxes  that are due. Local tax is due to the jurisdictions where the item  is first stored regardless of which election is chosen. A direct pay  permit holder who elects to pay Texas use tax when items are first  stored may claim a refund as provided by other sections of this title  of taxes paid on items that are removed from storage in Texas for  use elsewhere.
65|§3.347|Improvements to Realty|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=347|"(a) ""Contract for the improvement to realty"" includes a contract with the intended purpose to: (1) erect, construct, alter, or repair any building or other structure, project, development, or other permanent improvement on, under the surface of, or to real property, whether fee or leasehold; (2) furnish and install property becoming a part of any building or other structure, project, development, or other permanent improvement on or to such real property, including tangible personal property, which after installation becomes real property by virtue of being embedded in or permanently affixed to the land or to a structure constituting realty and which property after installation is necessary to the intended usefulness of the building or other structure; or (3) alter the land surface of real property by such means as creating roads, earthen dams, and stock tanks. However, mining or timber operations do not, in and of themselves, constitute improvements to realty. (b) ""Contract for the improvement to realty"" does not include: (1) a contract for the sale and installation of tangible personal property; this includes a contract to furnish and install machinery, equipment, or other tangible property not essential to the building or structure, nor adapted or intended to become a part of the realty, but which incidentally may, on account of its nature, be temporarily attached to the realty without losing its identity as a particular piece of machinery, equipment, or property and, if attached, is readily removable without substantial damage to the unit or to the realty or without destroying the intended usefulness of the realty; (2) the furnishing of tangible personal property if the person furnishing the property is not responsible for the final affixation or installation of any of the property furnished; or (3) the furnishing of tangible personal property if the person furnishing the property is only responsible for supervision or warranty of installation without contractual responsibility for installation."
66|§3.350|Master Recordings and Broadcasts|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=350|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Audio recording--The fixation of signals representing  a series of musical, spoken, or other sounds, but not including motion  pictures, by any method now known or later developed.  (2) Broadcast--For the purposes of this section only,  the dissemination of audio signals, video signals, or a combination  of both audio and video signals in the form of radio or television  programming to the public over the segment of the radio spectrum used  for broadcasting, and the exhibition of video programming with or  without the use of wires to subscribing or paying customers.  (3) C.F.R.--Code of Federal Regulations.  (4) C.F.R.-compliant digital audio broadcast equipment--Tangible  personal property that is sold to the permittee or licensee of an  AM or FM station that commences interim hybrid In-band On-Channel  (IBOC) digital audio broadcast (DAB) pursuant to 47 C.F.R. §73.404(a)  (Interim Hybrid IBOC DAB Operation), if the tangible personal property  is necessary for the licensee or permittee to provide the broadcast  services described by 47 C.F.R. §73.403 (Digital Audio Broadcasting  Service Requirements) or 47 C.F.R. §73.404.  (5) C.F.R.-compliant digital television transmission  equipment--Tangible personal property that is sold to a digital television  broadcast station permittee or licensee to which 47 C.F.R. §73.624(b)  applies, if the tangible personal property is necessary for the permittee  or licensee to comply with 47 C.F.R. §73.682(d) (Digital Broadcast  Television Transmission Standard).  (6) Distribute--For purposes of this section only,  to supply copies of a master recording to persons who will sell, license,  further distribute, broadcast, or exhibit copies of the master recording.  For example, copies of a motion picture are distributed to movie theaters  which exhibit the motion pictures to the public for consideration.  (7) Exhibit--  (A) To play or perform a master recording or live program  at a place open to the public or at any place where a substantial  number of persons, outside of a normal circle of a family and its  social acquaintances, is gathered; or  (B) to transmit or otherwise communicate a performance  of the master recording or live program to the public by any means,  whether the members of the public capable of receiving the performance  receive it in the same place or in separate places and at the same  or different times.  (8) License--To authorize or otherwise grant legal  permission to use a copy of a master recording in a limited manner,  for a limited purpose, or both. For example, the owner of a master  audio recording may license a copy of the master audio recording for  use as part of an advertising campaign in a specific geographic area  for a specified period of time.  (9) Live program--Radio or television content that  is not pre-recorded and that is broadcast by a producer of cable programs  or a radio or television station licensed by the Federal Communications  Commission.  (10) Master recording--The principal media on which  images, sound, or a combination of images and sound are first fixed,  and from which copies are intended to be reproduced for the purpose  of obtaining consideration from the ultimate sale, license, distribution,  broadcast, or exhibition of the copies. A master recording may be  an audio recording, motion picture recording, video recording, or  a combination of these.  (A) Master recordings include feature films, television  programs, television commercials, corporate films, infomercials, recordings  of live performances, musical albums, and other projects that are  intended for commercial distribution, even if commercial distribution  is very limited, such as the distribution of training or industrial  films.  (B) Master recordings do not include training videos  for in-house use, student films, wedding videos, recordings exhibited  on social media, and other recordings not intended to be copied for  commercial distribution or commercial exhibition.  (C) A master recording may contain interactive software  that allows a viewer to locate, see, or hear a segment of the master  recording without having to see or hear the master recording in full.  (D) A master recording does not include video games  even if the games contain recorded audio or visual sequences.  (11) Media production facility--A structure, building,  or room used for the specific purpose of creating a moving image project.  The term includes but is not limited to:  (A) a soundstage and scoring stage;  (B) a production office;  (C) an editing facility, an animation production facility,  and a video game production facility;  (D) a storage and construction space; and  (E) a sound recording studio and motion capture studio.  (12) Motion picture recording--A series of related  images stored in any method now known or later developed which, when  shown in succession, together with any accompanying sounds, impart  an impression of motion.  (13) Moving image project--A visual and sound production,  including a film, television program, national or multistate commercial,  or digital interactive media production. The term does not include  a production that is obscene, as defined by Penal Code, §43.21  (Definitions).  (14) Producer--A person who owns the original rights  to a master recording.  (15) Qualified media production location--A location  in a media production zone that has been designated by the Texas Film  Commission as a qualified media production location in accordance  with Government Code, Chapter 485A (Media Production Development Zones).  (16) Qualified person--A person certified by the Texas  Film Commission as a qualified person under Government Code, §485A.201  (Qualified person).  (17) Texas Film Commission--The division of the Office  of the Governor of Texas, by whatever name called, that is assigned  to administer and monitor the implementation of the Media Production  Development Zone Act as provided in Government Code, Chapter 485A.  (18) Video game--An electronic game in which a player  controls images on a video screen, television, or computer monitor.  (19) Video recording--A series of related images intended  to be shown by the use of machines or devices such as projectors,  viewers, or electronic equipment, together with any accompanying sounds,  stored in any method now known or later developed.  (b) Master recordings. (1) The sale of a master recording by the producer  of the master recording is exempt from sales and use tax under this  section.  (2) The sale of a copy of a master recording is taxable  under Tax Code, Chapter 151 (Limited Sales, Excise, and Use Tax) as  the sale of tangible personal property.  (3) A license of all or part of the rights to a master  recording is not subject to tax under Tax Code, Chapter 151.  (c) Exempt items used in production.  (1) Except as provided in subsections (d) and (e) of  this section, sales and use tax is not due on the purchase or use  of the following items:  (A) tangible personal property that will become an  ingredient or component part of a master recording or a live program;  and  (B) tangible personal property or taxable services  that are necessary or essential to, and used or consumed in or during,  the production of a master recording or live program.  (i) Tangible personal property that is leased or rented  is eligible for exemption described in this subparagraph regardless  of the length of the lease or rental.  (ii) Taxable items used in pre-production activities  do not qualify for the exemption under this section because they are  not used or consumed in or during the production of the master recording  or live program. Examples of equipment used in pre-production include  equipment used in gathering news prior to the beginning of a television  production and computers and software used in authoring or editing  a script.  (2) The exemption in this subsection includes, but  is not limited to:  (A) cameras, film, and film developing chemicals that  are necessary and essential to and used or consumed in the production  of a master recording or a live program;  (B) lights, props, sets, teleprompters, microphones,  digital equipment, special effects equipment and supplies, and other  equipment that is necessary and essential to and used or consumed  directly in the production of a master recording or a live program;  and  (C) audio or video routing switchers located in a production  or recording studio that are necessary and essential to and used or  consumed directly in the production of a master recording or a live  program.  (d) Nonexempt items used in production. (1) The following items do not qualify for exemption  under this section even when used in the production of a master recording  or a live program:  (A) office equipment or supplies;  (B) maintenance or janitorial equipment or supplies;  (C) machinery, equipment, or supplies used in sales  or transportation activities;  (D) machinery, equipment, or supplies used in distribution  activities, unless otherwise exempted by this section;  (E) taxable items that are used incidentally in the  production of a master recording or a live program;  (F) telecommunications equipment and services;  (G) transmission equipment, other than qualifying C.F.R.-compliant  digital television transmission equipment and qualifying C.F.R.-compliant  digital audio broadcast equipment;  (H) security services;  (I) motor vehicle parking services; and  (J) food ready for immediate consumption.  (2) Examples of nonexempt items used in production  include, but are not limited to: tents for catering or staging areas;  office furniture; crew jackets; flowers for dressing rooms; catering  or other food ready for immediate consumption; bodyguard services;  script typing; landscape maintenance; director's chairs; gas cans;  ladders; shipping cases; battery chargers; mobile offices; pagers,  cellular phones, and other communication equipment (except those used  exclusively on the set); telecommunications services such as mobile  phone service; waste removal (including waste that will be recycled);  wardrobe racks; and alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages.  (3) Taxable items are not exempt under this section  when used in the production of a master recording for broadcast, or  in the production of a live program for broadcast, if the master recording  or live program is not intended to be broadcast to either the general  public or to cable television service subscribers or paying customers.  (e) Transportation equipment. Motor vehicles, including  trailers and semitrailers, are subject to motor vehicle sales tax  and are exempt from sales and use tax imposed by Tax Code, Chapter  151 (Limited Sales, Excise, and Use Tax). For more information on  the taxes due on motor vehicles, see Subchapter F, of this chapter  (Motor Vehicle Sales Tax). Other types of machinery, equipment, or  supplies used in transportation activities, such as helicopters, do  not qualify for exemption from sales and use tax under this section.  (f) C.F.R.-compliant digital television transmission.  (1) The purchase of C.F.R.-compliant digital television  transmission equipment by a digital television broadcast station permittee  or licensee is exempt from sales and use tax. The exemption applies  whether the equipment is used for television transmission in high  or standard definition.  (2) Equipment that may be used for both analog and  digital television transmission is exempt if it is necessary to comply  with 47 C.F.R. §73.682(d) (TV transmission standards). Transmission  equipment that is not necessary for digital television transmission,  or that can be used only for analog transmission, is not exempt under  this section.  (3) An Advanced Television Systems Committee (ATSC)  encoder is exempt.  (4) Entities that are not subject to the relevant provisions  of 47 C.F.R. Part 73 (Radio Broadcast Services), such as cable and  satellite television providers, may not make exempt purchases under  this subsection.  (g) C.F.R.-compliant digital audio broadcast equipment.  (1) The purchase of C.F.R.-compliant digital audio  broadcast equipment by a radio broadcast station permittee or licensee  is exempt from sales and use tax.  (2) Equipment used to transmit both over-the-air digital  audio programming at no direct charge to listeners and over-the-air  digital audio programming for a fee to listeners is exempt.  (3) Equipment used solely to transmit over-the-air  digital audio programming for a fee to listeners is not exempt.  "", '(h) Exemptions for repair and maintenance. Repair or  maintenance of tangible personal property that is exempted under this  section is also exempt, unless the tangible personal property is installed  into realty and has lost its identity as tangible personal property.  For information on the repair or maintenance of items that become  real property after installation, see §3.357 of this title (relating  to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling, and Restoration;  Real Property Maintenance). For information on new construction that  incorporates materials exempted under this section see §3.291  of this title (relating to Contractors).  (i) Exemptions for natural gas and electricity. (1) Natural gas and electricity used in the production  of a master recording are exempt.  (2) Natural gas and electricity are taxable when used  for a non-exempt purpose. For example, an entertainment venue provides  beverages to customers during live performances. The venue also makes  master recordings of the live performances. The electricity used for  the beverage refrigeration equipment is not exempt; however the electricity  used to power the recording equipment is exempt under this subsection.  Non-exempt purposes include, but are not limited to, the following:  (A) administrative or office operations;  (B) marketing;  (C) transportation; or  (D) warehousing.  (3) A predominant use study is required to determine  the exempt and non-exempt use of natural gas or electricity measured  by a single meter. See §3.295 of this title (relating to Natural  Gas and Electricity).  (j) Exemptions for qualified media production locations.  (1) The exemption in this subsection is available only  to a qualified person acquiring a taxable item for use at a qualified  media production location. Information on becoming certified as a  qualified person or a qualified media production location is available  through the Texas Film Commission.  (2) The sale, lease, or rental of a taxable item, including  nonresidential repair or remodeling services, is exempt if the item  is used:  (A) for the construction, maintenance, expansion, improvement,  or renovation of a media production facility at a qualified media  production location;  (B) to equip a media production facility at a qualified  media production location; or  (C) for the renovation of a building or facility at  a qualified media production location that is to be used exclusively  as a media production facility.  (3) Repair or maintenance of tangible personal property  used to equip a media production facility at a qualified media production  location is exempt during the exemption period described in paragraph  (4) of this subsection.  (4) The exemption in this subsection is temporary.  (A) The exemption begins when both the qualified person  and related qualified media production location are certified by the  Texas Film Commission.  (B) The exemption ends on the earlier of:  (i) the expiration date identified in the approval  documents issued for the certification of the qualified media production  location;  (ii) the expiration date identified in the approval  documents issued for the certification of the qualified person; or  (iii) the date the certification of either the qualified  person or the qualified media production location is revoked.  (C) In no event shall the exemption period extend for  more than two years from the earlier of the date of certification  of the qualified person or the date of certification of the related  qualified media production location.  (5) Reports required. Each qualified person is required  to submit a report for each qualified media production location.  (A) The report must be in the form and manner prescribed  by the comptroller and must contain the following information:  (i) the name, address, and comptroller-issued taxpayer  identification number of the qualified person;  (ii) the name, address, and, if applicable, comptroller-issued  taxpayer identification number of the qualified media production location;  (iii) a description of the project or activity conducted  by the qualified person at the qualified media production location;  (iv) the date of certification and the expiration date  of the certification of the qualified person and related qualified  media production zone as identified in the approval documents issued  by the Texas Film Commission; (v) a statement that no items were purchased tax-free  under the exemption in this subsection during the period covered by  the report, if applicable; or for each item purchased tax-free under  this exemption the following information:  (I) the name, address, and comptroller-issued taxpayer  identification number of the seller;  (II) the date of purchase;  (III) the name or description of the item, or like  items;  (IV) the purpose or brief explanation of how the item,  or like items, were, or are to be, used;  (V) the sales price of the item;  (VI) the lease or rental terms, if applicable; and  (VII) the current location of the item.  (B) Report periods. The initial report covers the time  period from the date of certification of the qualified person and  the related qualified media production location through August 31.  For example, if the qualified person and the related qualified media  production location received certification on April 1, the initial  report period is April 1 through August 31. Subsequent reports cover  the time period from September 1 through August 31 of the following  year.  (C) The report is due September 30 each year. If the  due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the report  will be due the next business day. (k) Exemption certificates. The exemptions under this  section may be claimed by providing the seller with a properly completed  exemption certificate at the time of purchase in lieu of paying sales  and use tax. See §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption  Certificates).  (l) Divergent use.  (1) When a taxable item purchased tax-free under a  properly completed exemption certificate is used in a taxable manner,  sales and use tax is due. The tax is calculated based on the fair  market rental value of the tangible personal property for the period  of time used in the taxable manner. See §3.287 of this title  and Tax Code, §151.155 (Exemption Certificate).  (2) Records must be maintained to document the taxable  use of an item purchased tax-free, and the payment of sales and use  tax due on such use."
67|§3.353|Sales Tax Holiday--Certain Emergency Preparation Supplies|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=353|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Emergency preparation item--  (A) A portable generator used to provide light or communications  or to preserve perishable food in the event of a power outage, the  sales price of which is less than $3,000;  (B) a storm protection device manufactured, rated,  and marketed specifically to prevent damage to a glazed or non-glazed  opening during a storm, the sales price of which is less than $300;  (C) an emergency or rescue ladder, such as a collapsible  or chain ladder designed to hang from a window sill, the sales price  of which is less than $300; or  (D) an item listed in this subparagraph, the sales  price of which is less than $75:  (i) a reusable or artificial ice product;  (ii) a portable, self-powered light source;  (iii) a gasoline or diesel fuel container;  (iv) a AAA cell, AA cell, C cell, D cell, 6 volt, or  9 volt battery, or a package containing more than one battery, other  than an automobile or boat battery;  (v) a nonelectric cooler or ice chest for food storage;  (vi) a tarpaulin or other flexible waterproof sheeting;  (vii) a ground anchor system or tie-down kit;  (viii) a mobile telephone battery or battery charger;  (ix) a portable self-powered radio, including a two-way  radio or weatherband radio;  (x) a fire extinguisher, smoke detector, or carbon  monoxide detector;  (xi) a hatchet or axe;  (xii) a self-contained first aid kit; or  (xiii) a nonelectric can opener.  (2) Exemption period--The period beginning at 12:01  a.m. on the Saturday before the last Monday in April and ending at  12 midnight on the last Monday in April.  (3) Layaway sales--A transaction in which merchandise  is set aside for future delivery to a customer who makes a deposit,  agrees to pay the balance of the purchase price over a period of time,  and, at the end of the payment period, receives the merchandise.  (4) Rain check--A document assuring that a person can  take advantage of a sale or special offer made by a seller at a later  time if the item offered is not available.  (b) Exempt sales.  (1) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of an emergency  preparation item during the exemption period.  (2) Any person can purchase emergency preparation items  tax-free during the exemption period. There is no limit to the number  of emergency preparation items one person can purchase tax-free during  the exemption period. An exemption or resale certificate is not required  to purchase an emergency preparation item tax-free during the exemption  period.  (3) The exemption applies to each emergency preparation  item sold during the exemption period, regardless of how many emergency  preparation items are sold on the same invoice. For example, a person  can purchase two generators with a sales price of $2,500 each, even  though the total price on the invoice exceeds $3,000.  (4) Emergency preparation items may be rented or leased  tax-free, including under a ""rent to own"" contract, if the rental  or lease contract is executed during the exemption period. Extensions  or renewals of rental or lease contracts do not qualify for the exemption  unless executed during the exemption period.  (c) Taxable sales. The exemption under this section  does not apply to:  (1) tangible personal property that is not an emergency  preparation item, as that term is defined in subsection (a)(1) of  this section, for example, camp stoves, camping supplies, chainsaws,  extension ladders, step-ladders, plywood, tents, or automobile or  boat batteries;  (2) a portable generator with a sales price of $3,000  or more;  (3) a storm protection device or emergency or rescue  ladder with a sales price of $300 or more;  (4) any item listed in subsection (a)(1)(D) of this  section with a sales price of $75 or more;  (5) repair or replacement parts for an emergency preparation  item that do not otherwise qualify for exemption; or  (6) services performed on or related to emergency preparation  items as well as warranty plans and extended protection plans. For  example, repair services for an eligible portable generator are taxable  as the repair of tangible personal property. See §3.292 of this  title (relating to Repair, Remodeling, Maintenance, and Restoration  of Tangible Personal Property) for more information.  (d) Sales of pre-packaged combinations containing both  exempt and taxable items.  (1) When an emergency preparation item is sold together  in a pre-packaged combination with an item that is not eligible for  the exemption described in subsection (b) of this section, the full  price of the pre-packaged combination is subject to sales tax, unless  the price of the emergency preparation item is separately stated.  For example, a portable generator and a portable cooking device sold  as a set for a single price is taxable regardless of the price of  the generator or the package. A separately-stated charge for the portable  generator is eligible for the sales tax exemption during the exemption  period if the sales price of the portable generator is less than $3,000.  (2) When an emergency preparation item is sold in a  pre-packaged combination that contains as a free gift an item that  is not eligible for the exemption described in subsection (b) of this  section, the emergency preparation item may qualify for the exemption  under this section if the price of the set is the same as the price  of the emergency preparation item sold separately. For example, a  portable generator with a sales price of less than $3,000 may be sold  in a package with a free extension cord. If the price of the set is  the same as the price of the portable generator sold separately, the  product that is being sold is the portable generator, which is exempt  from tax if sold during the exemption period. See §3.301 of this  title (relating to Promotional Plans, Coupons, Retailer Reimbursement)  for additional information on the seller's tax responsibility for  the free item.  (e) Sales price. Whether an item described in subsection  (a)(1) of this section satisfies the definition of an emergency supply  item, and can be purchased tax-free during the exemption period, depends  upon the sales price of the item.  (1) Delivery or shipping and handling charges. Delivery  or shipping and handling charges are included as part of the total  sales price of an item of tangible personal property, regardless of  whether the charges are separately stated.  (A) The addition of delivery or shipping and handling  charges to the price of an item may result in the item no longer qualifying  as an emergency preparation item. For example, a portable generator  with a sales price of $2,999 is eligible for the exemption during  the exemption period. A generator that sells for $2,999 and is delivered  for a charge of $25, for a total sales price of $3,024, does not qualify  as an emergency preparation item and sales tax is due on the total  sales price of $3,024, even if the sale occurs during the exemption  period.  (B) Delivery or shipping and handling charges which  are part of the sales price of an exempt item are exempt so long as  the total charge does not exceed the limits set forth in this exemption.  For example, a portable generator with a sales price of $1,999 and  delivery charge of $50, for a total sales price of $2,049, is eligible  for the exemption during the exemption period. The total sales price  of $2,049, is exempt.  (2) Discounts. A seller may offer discounts to reduce  the sales price of an item described in subsection (a)(1) of this  section in order to qualify the item as an emergency preparation item.  When a discount is given during the exemption period to reduce the  sales price of an item described in subsection (a)(1) of this section,  the item can qualify as an emergency preparation item based on the  reduced sales price.  (3) Coupons. When sellers accept a coupon as a part  of the sales price of any item of tangible personal property, the  value of the coupon is excluded from the sales price as a cash discount,  regardless of whether the seller is reimbursed for the amount that  the coupon represents. When a coupon is used during the exemption  period to reduce the sales price of an item described in subsection  (a)(1) of this section, the item can qualify as an emergency preparation  item based on the reduced sales price.  (4) Buy one, get one free or for a reduced price. The  total price of an item that is advertised as ""buy one, get one free,""  or ""buy one, get one for a reduced price,"" cannot be averaged across  two items in order for both to qualify for the exemption under this  section as emergency preparation items. For example, an emergency  rescue ladder with a sales price of $400 that is advertised as buy  one, get one free does not qualify as an emergency preparation item  based on the sales price even though the purchaser is receiving two  emergency rescue ladders and the average sales price of each would  be $200.  (5) Rebates. Rebates that are paid to a purchaser after  the exemption period do not affect the sales price of an item purchased  for purposes of determining whether an item qualifies for exemption  under this section. The full amount of the sales price, before the  rebate, is used to determine whether an item meets the definition  of an emergency preparation item.  (f) Layaway sales and purchases by means other than  in person. (1) The sale of an emergency preparation item under  a layaway plan or purchased by mail, telephone, email, Internet, custom  order, or any other means other than in person qualifies for exemption  when either:  (A) the purchaser places on layaway the emergency preparation  item during the exemption period and the seller accepts the order  for immediate delivery upon full payment, even if delivery is made  after the exemption period; (B) the purchaser places the order and the seller accepts  the order during the exemption period for immediate shipment, even  if delivery is made after the exemption period; or (C) final payment on the layaway order is made by,  and the merchandise is given to, the purchaser during the exemption  period.  (2) For purposes of this subsection, the seller accepts  an order when the seller has taken action to fill the order for immediate  shipment. Actions to fill an order include placement of an ""in date""  stamp on a mail order, or assignment of an ""order number"" to a telephone  order. An order is for immediate shipment notwithstanding that the  shipment may be delayed because of a backlog of orders or because  stock is currently unavailable to, or on back order by, the seller.  (g) Rain checks. Emergency preparation items purchased  during the exemption period with use of a rain check qualify for the  exemption regardless of when the rain check was issued. The issuance  of a rain check during the exemption period will not qualify an emergency  preparation item for the exemption if the item is purchased after  the exemption period.  (h) Exchanges.  (1) Tax is not due on an emergency preparation item  purchased during the exemption period but exchanged, after the exemption  period ends, for an emergency preparation item of equal or lesser  value.  (2) Tax is due on the difference in sales price of  an emergency preparation item purchased during the exemption period  but exchanged, after the exemption period ends, for another emergency  preparation item of greater value that would qualify for exemption  if purchased during the exemption period.  (i) Returned merchandise. For a 30-day period after  the temporary exemption period, when a customer returns an emergency  preparation item that would qualify for the exemption, no credit for  or refund of sales tax shall be given unless the customer provides  a receipt or invoice that shows tax was paid, or the seller has sufficient  documentation to show that tax was paid on the specific item.  (1) This 30-day period begins the Tuesday immediately  following the end of the exemption period and ends 30 calendar days  later with no exclusions for weekend days or holidays.  (2) This 30-day period is set solely for the purpose  of designating a time period during which the purchaser must provide  documentation that shows that sales tax was paid on returned merchandise.  The 30-day period is not intended to change a seller's policy on the  time period during which the seller will accept returns.  (j) Documenting exempt sales. A seller is not required  to obtain an exemption certificate on sales of eligible items during  the exemption period; however, the seller's records should clearly  identify the type of item sold, the date on which the item was sold,  and the sales price of each exempt item sold."
68|§3.354|Debt Collection Services|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=354|(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Claim--Without limitation, any alleged right, entitlement, or demand, whether for money or property, arising out of or concerning any actual or alleged obligation, promise or indebtedness, howsoever arising, whether in law or in equity, in contract or in tort, whether secured or unsecured, actual or contingent, and whether liquidated or unliquidated. (2) Contingent fee--An arrangement whereby a debt collector agrees, by contract or otherwise, to accept as consideration for debt collection services a percentage of the amount actually collected, whether inclusive or exclusive of actual expenses incurred in performing such services. (3) Debt--Any obligation to pay a sum certain in money or other consideration. (4) Debt collection service--Any activity performed for consideration, to collect or adjust a delinquent debt, to collect or adjust a claim, or to repossess property subject to a claim, including any activity performed in furtherance of the satisfaction or compromise of a debt or claim. (5) Debt collector--Any person performing debt collection services. (6) Drawer--The payor who owns the account on which a check is drawn. (b) Responsibilities of debt collectors. (1) Tax is due and must be collected on the total charge for debt collection activities when: (A) the last known address of the debtor in the creditor's records at the time the account is placed for collection is in Texas; and (B) the creditor for whom the debt is collected is located in Texas or is engaged in business in Texas (as provided in Tax Code, §151.107) at the time the debt is referred for collection. (2) Collection of current credit and real estate accounts, including mortgage payments and rental payments, is not subject to tax under this rule. A current credit or real estate transaction is one that has not exceeded the later of the due date of the payment or the date on which a penalty or other contractual sanction attaches. Late charges for payment of mortgage payments are considered additional interest and not debt collection charges. Mortgage reinstatement fees following forfeiture of a mortgage are not considered debt collection charges. (3) The drawer of a dishonored check is responsible for paying the cost incurred to process a dishonored check including the sales tax due on the debt collection service. (4) Debt collectors must obtain a tax permit and collect tax on the entire sales price of their service, or accept a properly completed exemption certificate in lieu of collecting tax. See §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates) and §3.322 of this title (relating to Exempt Organizations). (5) If a debt collector charges a contingent fee, the sales price is the amount actually withheld by or remitted to the debt collector for the performance of such services, including any amounts withheld or remitted for the purchase of taxable items used or consumed in performing the service. (c) Resale certificates. (1) A debt collector may issue a resale certificate in lieu of tax to a supplier of tangible personal property only if care, custody, and control of the property is transferred to the client. For example, a debt collector purchases magnetic tape to transfer the results of debt collection services to customers. The tape is transferred to the customer, and the customer owns and uses the tape to review the results of the service. Taxpayer may purchase the tape tax free by issuing a resale certificate. Tax is due on the total amount charged the customer, including amounts for the tape and for the services. (2) A resale certificate may be issued for a service if the buyer intends to transfer the service as an integral part of taxable services. A service will be considered an integral part of a taxable service if the service purchased is essential to the performance of the taxable service and without which the taxable service could not be rendered. (3) A resale certificate may be issued for a taxable service if the buyer intends to incorporate the service into tangible personal property which will be resold. If the entire service is not incorporated into the tangible personal property, it will be presumed the service is subject to tax and the service will only be exempt to the extent the buyer can establish the portion of the service actually incorporated into the tangible personal property. If the buyer does not intend to incorporate the entire service into the tangible personal property, no resale certificate may be issued, but credit may be claimed at the time of sale of the tangible personal property to the extent the service was actually incorporated into the tangible personal property. (d) Nontaxable services. (1) Activities undertaken by a debt collector to determine whether a creditor has a claim are not taxable if the debt collector determines not to attempt to collect or adjust the claim. (2) Collection of court-ordered child support or medical child support is not taxable. (3) Services that are provided by a person who acts as a trustee in connection with the foreclosure sale of real property under a lien that is created by a mortgage, deed of trust, or security instrument are not taxable. (e) Unrelated services. (1) A service will be considered as unrelated if: (A) it is not a debt collection service nor a service taxed under other provisions of Tax Code, Chapter 151; (B) it is of a type that is commonly provided on a stand-alone basis; and (C) the performance of the unrelated service is distinct and identifiable. Examples of an unrelated service that may be excluded from the tax base include charges for consultation, training, or collection of current mortgage payments. (2) If a combination of nontaxable unrelated services and taxable debt collection services is performed under the same contract, and the debt collection portion exceeds 5.0% of the overall charge, then the parties to the contract must separately identify taxable and nontaxable services along with the charges that apply to each, or else the entire contract is presumed to be for debt collection and is taxable. If the charge for the taxable portion of the services is not separately stated at the time of the transaction, the service provider or the purchaser may later establish for the comptroller, through the debt collector's books or other documentary evidence, the percentage of the total charge that relates to nontaxable unrelated services. Both parties must retain documentation that clearly defines the work that is performed to show that, had the nontaxable service and debt collection service been done independently, the charge for each would reasonably approximate the amount allocated. The comptroller may recalculate the charges if the allocation appears unreasonable and either party may be held responsible for the additional tax, penalty, and interest on the taxable services. (3) Charges for services or expenses directly related to and incurred while providing the taxable service are taxable and may not be separated for the purpose of excluding these charges from the tax base. Examples would be charges for meals, telephone calls, hotel rooms, or airplane tickets. (f) Service benefit location. If both the creditor and the debtor are located in Texas, Texas tax is due. (g) Service benefit location--multistate customer. (1) To the extent a debt collection service is used to benefit a separate, identifiable segment of a creditor's business (other than general administration or operation of the business) the service is presumed to be used at the location where that part of the creditor's business is conducted. (2) To the extent the use of the service cannot be assigned to an identifiable segment of a creditor's business, the service is presumed to be used to support the administration or operation of the creditor's business generally. The service is presumed to be used at the creditor's principal place of business. The principal place of business means the place from which the trade or business is directed or managed. (3) If a multistate customer claims that part of the debt collection service benefits the customer's business at locations both within and outside the state, the customer must provide the debt collection service provider with an exemption certificate in lieu of tax. It will then be the customer's responsibility to report the tax to this office for that portion of service that benefits Texas locations. The service will not be taxable to the extent the customer can establish benefit outside Texas. A multistate creditor may use any reasonable method for allocation which is supported by business records. (4) A debt collector who accepts a certificate in good faith is relieved of responsibility for collecting and remitting tax on transactions to which the certificate relates. (h) Local taxes. (1) Local sales tax. Local sales taxes (city, county, transit authority, and special purpose district) apply to debt collection services in the same way they apply to tangible personal property. Generally, service providers must collect local sales taxes if their place of business is within a local taxing jurisdiction, even if the service is actually provided at a location outside that jurisdiction. (A) Transit sales taxes do not apply to services provided outside the boundaries of the transit area. (B) In the case of multiple locations, if an order for service is placed at one location but the service is provided at another location, the place of business from which the service is provided will determine to which local taxing entity the tax is allocated. (2) Local use tax. (A) If the service provider's place of business is outside a local taxing jurisdiction but service is provided to a customer within a local taxing jurisdiction, local use taxes apply and the service provider is responsible for collecting the local use tax if the service provider has representation in the local jurisdiction. (B) If a customer of a service provider located outside a local taxing jurisdiction claims that part of the debt collection service benefits the customer's business in more than one local taxing jurisdiction, the customer must provide the service provider with an exemption certificate in lieu of use tax. (This claim may be asserted and the exemption certificate issued only in situations where use tax is due and does not apply when local sales tax is applicable.) The local use tax for each local taxing jurisdiction to which the exemption certificate applies must be reported, allocated, and paid by the customer. A debt collector who accepts in good faith an exemption certificate claiming benefit in more than one local taxing jurisdiction is relieved of responsibility for collecting and remitting local use tax on transactions to which the certificate relates. (3) References. For more information on the collection and allocation of local sales and use taxes, see §3.374 of this title (relating to Collection and Allocation of the City Sales Tax), §3.375 of this title (relating to City Use Tax), §3.424 of this title (relating to Collection and Allocation of Transit Sales Tax), and §3.425 of this title (relating to Transit Use Tax). (i) A multistate creditor purchasing debt collection services for the benefit of both in-state and out-of-state locations is responsible for issuing an exemption certificate and for reporting and paying local tax as provided by subsection (g) of this section. (j) Use tax. If a debt collector is not engaged in business in Texas or in a specific local taxing jurisdiction and is not required to collect Texas tax, it is the Texas creditor's responsibility to report and pay the state and local use tax to this office.
69|§3.355|Insurance Services|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=355|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise.  (1) Affiliated group--A group of one or more entities  in which a controlling interest is owned by a common owner or owners,  either corporate or noncorporate, or by one or more of the member  entities.  (2) Certified public accountancy firm--A person who  holds a firm license issued under Occupations Code, Chapter 901, Subchapter  H (Firm License Requirements), or a firm that practices public accountancy  in this state under Occupations Code, §901.461 (Practice by Certain  Out-of-State Firms).  (3) Controlling interest--  (A) for a corporation, either more than 50%, owned  directly or indirectly, of the total combined voting power of all  classes of stock of the corporation, or more than 50%, owned directly  or indirectly, of the beneficial ownership interest in the voting  stock of the corporation;  (B) for a partnership, association, trust, or other  entity other than a limited liability company, more than 50%, owned  directly or indirectly, of the capital, profits, or beneficial interest  in the partnership, association, trust, or other entity; and  (C) for a limited liability company, either more than  50%, owned directly or indirectly, of the total membership interest  of the limited liability company or more than 50%, owned directly  or indirectly, of the beneficial ownership interest in the membership  interest of the limited liability company.  (4) Insurance loss or damage appraisal--Any activity  performed for purposes of valuing damages, or estimating the quantity,  value, or extent of loss of property. Appraisal activities performed  prior to damage or loss, such as the appraisal of jewelry for scheduling  on a homeowners insurance policy, are not considered loss or damage  appraisal.  (5) Insurance inspection--Any activity performed to  evaluate risks to property, to survey or value property in connection  with the furnishing of insurance coverage, or any other similar activity.  (6) Insurance investigation--Any activity performed  to evaluate an individual's eligibility or qualifications for insurance  coverage, or for the payment of benefits, or any other similar activity.  For example, the assembly or evaluation of information for the purpose  of determining whether to issue a life insurance policy to a specific  individual would be considered an insurance investigation.  (7) Insurance or annuity actuarial analysis or research--Any  activity performed in connection with the calculation of rates for  a policy of insurance or annuity rates, reserves, refunds, dividends,  insurance benefits, or other similar activities.  (8) Insurance claims adjustment or claims processing--Any  activities to supervise, handle, investigate, pay, settle, or adjust  claims or losses.  (9) Insurance loss prevention service--Any activities  performed in an effort to identify, analyze, evaluate, control, anticipate  and/or eliminate the occurrence of accidents, losses, or damage. Examples  include: survey recommendations, training programs, consultations,  analysis of accident causes, and industrial hygiene and health services.  (10) Insurance carrier--Every type of insurer engaged  in the business of insurance that is licensed or operates under or  is required to be licensed or to operate under the provisions of the  Insurance Code.  (11) Public insurance adjuster--A person, as set out  in Insurance Code, §4102.001(3), who:  (A) for direct, indirect, or any other compensation:  (i) acts on behalf of an insured in negotiating for  or effecting the settlement of a claim or claims for loss or damage  under any policy of insurance covering real or personal property;  or  (ii) on behalf of any other public insurance adjuster,  investigates, settles, or adjusts or advises or assists an insured  with a claim or claims for loss of damage under any policy of insurance  covering real or personal property; or  (B) advertises, solicits business, or holds himself  or herself out to the public as an adjuster of claims for loss or  damage under any policy of insurance covering real or personal property.  (12) Self-insured plan--A plan whereby an employer  maintains funds for providing employee benefits rather than transferring  risk by purchasing insurance from an insurance carrier. This plan  is not considered a policy of insurance for sales tax purposes.  (13) Third-party administrator--A person hired by an  employer to administer the provisions of the employer's self-insured  plan.  (b) Taxable services. Insurance services defined in  subsection (a) of this section performed on behalf of an insurance  carrier, its insured, its policyholders, or others pertaining to a  policy or policies of insurance for monetary fees, dues, or other  consideration are taxable. These services performed pursuant to a  self-insured plan or for a third-party administrator handling distribution  of funds under a self-insured plan are not taxable.  (c) Nontaxable services. The following services are  not taxable as insurance services:  (1) insurance coverage for which a premium is paid  or sales commissions are paid to insurance agents. Insurance services  provided by an insurance agent without charge to the customer are  not taxable. If a customer pays a separate amount for these services  over and above the amount paid as a commission for a policy, this  separate charge is taxable;  (2) medical services provided by any medical provider,  including physicians, medical staff at the physician's direction,  hospitals, clinics, chiropractors, and other practitioners of the  healing arts;  (3) services related to automobile warranties or service  contracts for which the State Board of Insurance allows an exclusion  to third-party administrators;  (4) services performed on behalf of an insured by a  public insurance adjuster on or after October 1, 2015. Insurance services  performed by a public insurance adjuster before October 1, 2015, are  subject to tax regardless of the date billed, invoiced, or paid;  (5) effective January 1, 2018, services performed by  a certified public accountancy firm, if less than one percent of the  firm's total revenue in the prior calendar year is from services in  this state that would otherwise constitute taxable insurance services,  as described in subsection (b) of this section; and  (6) effective January 1, 2018, services performed on  behalf of a certified public accountancy firm by an owner of the firm  or a member of the firm's affiliated group, if less than one percent  of the owner's or member's total revenue in the prior calendar year  is from services in this state that would otherwise constitute taxable  insurance services, as described in subsection (b) of this section.  (d) Doing business. Insurance services will be subject  to taxation in Texas if the individual, entity, or property which  is the object of the service is in Texas and the company for which  the services are performed is either an insurance carrier as that  term is defined in subsection (a)(10) of this section, or if not an  insurance carrier, is doing business in Texas.  (e) Fees and premiums. Insurance premiums and any other  form of compensation subject to gross administrative or service fees  taxes under the Insurance Code are subject to tax hereunder if paid  in connection with the performance of an insurance service. Insurance  premiums subject to gross premiums taxes under the Insurance Code  are not subject to sales tax.  (f) Not insurance related. Where an insurance service  is performed as a part of a nontaxable service and the primary purpose  for purchasing the nontaxable service is not insurance related, no  part of the fee or charge is taxable. For example, the charge for  an appraisal required by a lender as a condition of extending credit  is not taxable as an insurance service because the primary purpose  in obtaining the service is financing the loan. The fact that the  appraisal may also be used as the basis for establishing minimum property  insurance required by the lender as a condition of financing does  not render the service taxable as an insurance service.  (g) Responsibilities of persons providing insurance  services. Persons providing insurance services must obtain a tax permit  and collect tax on the entire sales price of their services. The presumption  is that all services are taxable unless the service provider obtains  an exemption certificate from a customer claiming an exemption. For  example, a third-party administrator may issue an exemption certificate  for charges for claim adjustment activities done pursuant to a self-insured  plan.  (h) Resale certificates.  (1) Providers of insurance service may issue a resale  certificate in lieu of tax to suppliers of tangible personal property  only if care, custody, and control of the property will be transferred  to the service provider's client. For example, an insurance service  provider purchases magnetic tape to transfer the results of actuarial  research to service provider's client. The tape is transferred to  the client and the client owns and uses the tape to review the results  of the actuarial research. The insurance service provider may purchase  the tape tax free by issuing a resale certificate. Tax is due on the  total amount charged the customer, including amounts for the tape  and for the services.  (2) A resale certificate may be issued for a service  if the buyer intends to transfer the service as an integral part of  taxable services. A service will be considered an integral part of  a taxable service if the service purchased is essential to the performance  of the taxable service and without which the taxable service could  not be rendered.  (3) A resale certificate may be issued for a taxable  service if the buyer intends to incorporate the service into tangible  personal property which will be resold. If the entire service is not  incorporated into the tangible personal property, it will be presumed  the service is subject to tax and the service will only be exempt  to the extent the buyer can establish the portion of the service actually  incorporated into the tangible personal property. If the buyer does  not intend to incorporate the entire service into the tangible personal  property, no resale certificate may be issued, but credit may be claimed  at the time of sale of the tangible personal property to the extent  the service was actually incorporated into the tangible personal property.  (i) Unrelated services.  (1) A service will be considered as unrelated if:  (A) it is not an insurance service, nor a service taxed  under other provisions of Tax Code, Chapter 151;  (B) it is of a type which is commonly provided on a  stand-alone basis; and  (C) the performance of the unrelated service is distinct  and identifiable. Examples of an unrelated service which may be excluded  from the tax base include activities as third-party administrators,  appraisals for reasons other than loss or damage, or doctor's fees.  (2) Where nontaxable unrelated services and taxable  services are sold or purchased for a single charge and the portion  relating to taxable services represents more than 5.0% of the total  charge, the total charge is presumed to be taxable. The presumption  may be overcome by the insurance service provider at the time the  transaction occurs by separately stating to the customer a reasonable  charge for the taxable services. However, if the charge for the taxable  portion of the services is not separately stated at the time of the  transaction, the service provider or the purchaser may later establish  for the comptroller, through documentary evidence, the percentage  of the total charge that relates to nontaxable unrelated services.  The insurance service provider's books must support the apportionment  between exempt and nonexempt activities based on the cost of providing  the service or on a comparison to the normal charge for each service  if provided alone. If the charge for exempt services is unreasonable  when the overall transaction is reviewed considering the cost of providing  the service or a comparable charge made in the industry for each service,  the comptroller will adjust the charges and assess additional tax,  penalty, and interest on the taxable services.  (3) Charges for services or expenses directly related  to and incurred while providing the taxable service are taxable and  may not be separated for the purpose of excluding these charges from  the tax base. Examples would be charges for meals, telephone calls,  hotel rooms, or airplane tickets.  (j) Service benefit location--multistate customer.  (1) To the extent an insurance service is used to support  a separate, identifiable segment of a customer's business (other than  general administration or operation of the business) the service is  presumed to be used at the location where that part of the business  is conducted.  (2) If that part of the business is conducted at locations  both within and outside the state, the service is not taxable to the  extent it is used outside Texas. A multistate customer may use any  reasonable method for allocation which is supported by business records.  "", ""(3) A multistate customer purchasing insurance services,  such as actuarial services, for the benefit of both in-state and out-of-state  locations is responsible for issuing to the insurance services provider  an exemption certificate asserting a multistate benefit, and for reporting  and paying the tax on that portion of the insurance services charge  which will benefit the Texas location. A provider of insurance services  that accepts such a certificate in good faith is relieved of responsibility  for collecting and remitting tax on transactions to which the certificate  relates.  (4) The customer's books must support the assignment  of the service to an identifiable segment of the business, the determination  of the location or locations of the use of the service, and the allocation  of the taxable charge to Texas.  (5) To the extent the use of the service cannot be  assigned to an identifiable segment of a customer's business, the  service is presumed to be used to support the administration or operation  of the customer's business generally. The service is presumed to be  used at the customer's principal place of business. The principal  place of business means the place from which the trade or business  is directed or managed.  (k) Local tax. For information on the collection and  reporting responsibilities of providers and purchasers of taxable  services, see §3.334 of this title (relating to Local Sales and  Use Taxes).  (l) Use tax. If a provider of an insurance service  is not doing business in Texas or in a specific local taxing jurisdiction  and is not required to collect Texas state or local tax, it is the  Texas customer's responsibility to report and pay the use tax directly  to this office."
70|§3.356|Real Property Service|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=356|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Employee--A person providing services for another for consideration where the employer has the right to control and direct the employee in the material details of how the work is to be performed, both under the contract of employment and in fact. The term also includes personnel provided by a temporary help service, as defined in paragraph (10) of this subsection. (2) Employer--In determining which of several persons is the employer of an individual, factors which will be considered include: (A) who exercises direct control over the details of how the work is performed by the employee; (B) who pays the employee\'s salary; (C) who withholds applicable federal taxes from the employee\'s salary; (D) who provides employment-related benefits such as health insurance, eligibility to participate in a retirement plan, sick leave, vacation, etc., to the employee; and (E) who has the right to terminate the employment of the individual employee. (3) Garbage or other solid waste--Waste; refuse; sludge from a waste treatment plant, a water supply treatment plant, or an air pollution control facility; and other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material, resulting from residential, industrial, municipal, commercial, mining, and agricultural operations, and resulting from community and institutional activities. The term does not include any of the following: (A) solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage; or solid or dissolved material in irrigation return flows; or industrial discharges subject to regulation by permit issued pursuant to the Texas Water Code, Chapter 26; (B) waste materials which result from activities associated with the exploration, development, or production of oil, gas, geothermal resources, or any other substance or material regulated by the Railroad Commission of Texas pursuant to Natural Resources Code, §91.101; (C) any waste which requires specific licensing under Health and Safety Code, Chapter 401, and the rules adopted by the Texas Board of Health under that law, which for the purposes of this rule shall be referred to as radioactive waste; (D) hazardous waste, as identified or listed as a hazardous waste by the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or by other appropriate federal or state agency; or (E) industrial solid waste, as that term is defined in Health and Safety Code, Chapter 361, with the exception of industrial solid waste which meets the definition of garbage or municipal solid waste.  (4) Landscaping--The activity of arranging and modifying areas of land, natural scenery and other areas, such as indoor or outdoor patios, for aesthetic effect, considering the use to which the land is to be put. The term includes adding, removing, or arranging natural forms, features, and plantings, including vegetation, and other features to fulfill aesthetic requirements. It includes the application of soil, soil additives, and amendments to prepare or maintain the planting area. Some examples are garden planting or maintenance, arborist services, ornamental bush or shrub planting, tree planting or removal, tree surgery, pruning or spraying, and lawn sodding. The term does not include the addition of sprinkler systems, retaining walls, ponds, pools, or fences, or other construction activities or services provided by landscape designers or landscape architects such as consultation, research, preparation of general or specific design or detail plans, studies, specifications, or supervision, or any other professional services or functions within the definition of the practice of engineering or architecture. Landscaping services performed by landscape designers or landscape architects are taxable. (5) Lawn and yard maintenance--Mowing, trimming, fertilizing, watering and any other treatment or service which may be performed on private or commercial yards or lawns. It also includes maintenance of trees and plants whether inside or outside a building. The term does not include clearing land for buildings, power line rights-of-way, pipeline rights-of-way, or maintenance on land belonging to a governmental entity when the service is required by the governmental entity. (6) Property management company--A person who, for consideration, operates and manages all the activities at a property held by the owner for purposes of rental, such as: an office building, mall or other retail or office complex, an apartment complex, duplex, or home. In the context of this rule, the responsibilities of a property management company must include, but are not limited to, securing tenants, hiring and supervising employees for operation or upkeep of the property, receiving and applying revenues, and incurring and paying expenses derived from the operation of the property as directed by the owner. The term does not include a person performing taxable services at a manufacturing facility or at a property held by the owner for purposes other than rental. (7) Residential or nonresidential building or grounds cleaning, janitorial, or custodial services--The activities of keeping the inside and outside premises of a building clean, orderly, and functional, including performing minor adjustments, maintenance, or repairs. Examples include, but are not limited to: window washing; floor, wall, and ceiling cleaning; collection of waste on the premises, whether from inside a building or on the grounds; chimney or duct cleaning; lighting maintenance, such as bulb and fuse replacement; the cleaning, disinfecting, and restocking of restrooms or lounge areas; cleaning or washing sidewalks, parking garages, or parking lots; and pool cleaning and maintenance. The term does not include activities such as painting; wallpapering; or performing significant repairs; nor domestic services such as those of a baby-sitter, maid or cook employed by a private household to provide domestic services for the benefit of the household. (8) Structural pest control services--Activities performed for the purpose of identifying, preventing, controlling, or eliminating, by use of chemical or mechanical means, infestation of any of the following: (A) insects, spiders, mites, ticks, ants, bees, and other related pests, wood infesting organisms, rodents, weeds, nuisance birds, or any other obnoxious or undesirable animals which may infest households, railroad cars, ships, docks, trucks, airplanes or other structures or their contents; (B) pests or diseases of trees, shrubs or other plantings in a park or adjacent to a residence, business establishment, industrial plant, institutional building, or street; and (C) the term ""structural pest control services"" includes related activities, such as inspection or evaluation concerning the nature or extent of an infestation; reports; or performance of services to control pest or insect infestation. (9) Surveying of real property--Activities performed to determine or confirm the boundaries of real property, or to determine or confirm the location of structures or other improvements in relation to the boundaries of the property by the use of relevant elements of law, research, measurement, analysis, computation, mapping and land description. Examples include, but are not limited to, boundary recovery, residential surveying, lot surveying, title surveying, as-built title surveying, and right-of-way surveying. The term does not include activities performed after taxable surveying has been completed to search the surveyed area for items of archaeological or historic significance. (10) Temporary help service--An individual, company, or corporation covered by Industry Group 7363, Group 736, Major Group 73 of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1989, and includes an individual, company, or corporation that supplies personnel on a temporary basis to supplement a customer\'s existing work force. In the context of this section, such temporary personnel must perform a service that is normally performed by the customer\'s own employees; the customer must provide all supplies and equipment necessary; and the temporary personnel must be under the direct or general supervision of the customer to whom the help is furnished. (b) Responsibilities of persons providing real property services on both residential and nonresidential real property. With the exception of terms defined by subsection (a)(6) and (10) of this section, persons providing services defined in subsection (a) of this section are performing real property services. Persons performing real property services must obtain a tax permit and collect and remit sales or use taxes on all charges for real property services. (c) Resale certificates. (1) A properly completed resale certificate may be used to purchase tangible personal property tax free if the care, custody, and control of the property is transferred to the customer as part of the real property service. For example, a taxpayer purchases paper products to be left at the customer\'s premises when providing janitorial services, or garbage dumpsters to leave on the customer\'s premises as a part of the garbage collection service. Taxpayer may purchase the paper products and dumpsters tax free by issuing a resale certificate. Tax is due on the total amount charged the customer, including amounts for the paper products, dumpster, and for the services. (2) A properly completed resale certificate may be issued for a service if the buyer intends to transfer the service as an integral part of a taxable service. A service will be considered an integral part of a taxable service if the service purchased is essential to the performance of the taxable service and without which the taxable service could not be rendered. See §3.285 of this title (relating to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale). (3) A properly completed resale certificate may be issued to purchase a taxable service tax free if the buyer intends to incorporate the service into tangible personal property which will be resold. If the entire service is not incorporated into the tangible personal property, it will be presumed the service is subject to tax and the service will only be exempt to the extent the buyer can establish the value of that portion of the service actually incorporated into the tangible personal property. If the buyer does not intend to incorporate the entire service into the tangible personal property, the buyer may not issue a resale certificate but he may claim credit at the time of sale of the tangible personal property for the portion of the service that was actually incorporated into the tangible personal property. (d) Exemption certificates. Persons providing real property services may accept a properly completed exemption certificate in lieu of tax when the service is purchased by an exempt entity. See §3.322 of this title (relating to Exempt Organizations), §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates) and §3.288 of this title (relating to Direct Payment Procedures and Qualifications). (e) Landscaping, lawn, and yard maintenance provided by persons under 18 years old or by persons 65 years old or older. Charges for the performance of landscaping, lawn, and yard maintenance services (subsection (a)(4) and (5) of this section) are exempt if performed by: (1) a self-employed person under 18 years of age whose total receipts from providing landscaping, lawn, or yard maintenance are $1,000 or less during either the preceding calendar quarter or the same calendar quarter of the preceding year; or (2) an individual 65 years of age or older whose total receipts from providing landscaping or yard maintenance are $5,000 or less for the four most recent quarters. (f) Landfill charges connected with garbage collection services. Persons providing garbage collection services may not separate in the bill to their customers the charge for garbage collection from the charge for use of the landfill for the purpose of reducing the amount upon which tax must be collected. The charge paid by the service provider for access to the landfill, while not taxable to the service provider, is a necessary expense in providing the garbage collection service and is not excludable from the fee to the service provider\'s customer for garbage collection. (g) Garbage removal facilities. When a city, county, or any other entity provides a facility where garbage may be left and which will, at another time, be moved to a landfill, the fee charged to persons depositing garbage into such a facility is considered to be a charge for garbage collection and is taxable. (h) Garbage collection services that may be excluded from tax. Persons providing collection services for customers having waste excluded from the definition of ""garbage or other solid waste"" may accept an exemption certificate from the customer in lieu of tax. The exemption certificate must state the type of waste being excluded, and that either the waste to be collected is totally excludable or that the customer has both taxable and nontaxable waste and the customer will be responsible for accruing tax on that portion of the charge which represents taxable services. The customer may use any reasonable allocation for reporting tax on taxable services which is supportable by books and records. (i) Unrelated services. (1) A service will be considered as unrelated if: (A) it is not a real property service, nor a service or labor taxable under another provision of the Tax Code, Chapter 151; (B) it is not provided as a part of the taxable service and is of a type which is commonly provided on a stand-alone basis; and Cont\'d...', ""(C) the performance of the unrelated service is distinct and identifiable. Examples of an unrelated service which may be excluded from the tax base include maintenance charges meeting the definition in §3.357 of this title (relating to Labor Relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling Restoration, Maintenance, New Construction, and Residential Property), engineering studies, and architectural or landscaping designs. (2) When nontaxable unrelated services and taxable services are sold or purchased for a single charge and the portion relating to taxable services represents more than 5.0% of the total charge, the total charge is presumed to be taxable. The presumption may be overcome by the service provider at the time the transaction occurs by separately stating to the customer a reasonable charge for the taxable services. However, if the charge for the taxable portion of the services is not separately stated at the time of the transaction, the service provider or the purchaser may later establish for the comptroller, through documentary evidence, the percentage of the total charge that relates to nontaxable unrelated services. A customer may presume that a separately stated charge from a service provider for taxable services is reasonable, in the context of this section. The service provider's books must support the apportionment between exempt and nonexempt activities based on the cost of providing the service or on a comparison to the normal charge for each service if provided alone. If the charge for exempt services is unreasonable when the overall transaction is reviewed, considering the cost of providing the service or a comparable charge made in the industry for each service, the comptroller will adjust the charges and assess the service provider the additional tax, penalty, and interest on the taxable services. (3) Charges for services or expenses directly related to or incurred while providing the taxable service are taxable and may not be separated for the purpose of excluding these charges from the tax base. Examples include charges for meals, telephone calls, hotel rooms, or airplane tickets. (j) Governmental entities. When garbage collection services are provided by a governmental entity without a specific charge being assessed, such as when this service is provided as a basic part of services funded by a tax or a set fee structure of the governmental entity, sales or use taxes are not due. This section does not apply if the fee changes each billing period based on quantity of consumption of tangible personal property or service provided individual service recipients. (k) Local taxes. With the exception of garbage or other solid waste removal services, local sales and use taxes apply to services in the same way as they apply to tangible personal property. Generally, service providers must collect local sales taxes if their place of business is within a local taxing jurisdiction, even if the service is actually provided at a location outside that jurisdiction. However, transit sales taxes do not apply to services provided outside the boundaries of the transit area. If the service provider's place of business is outside a local taxing jurisdiction but the service is provided to a customer within a local taxing jurisdiction, local use taxes apply and the service provider is required to collect them. Local taxes for garbage or other solid waste removal services are allocated to the local taxing jurisdiction in which the garbage or other solid waste is located when its collection or removal begins. (l) For general information on the collection and reporting responsibilities of providers and purchasers of taxable services, see §§3.286, 3.374, 3.375, 3.424, and 3.425 of this title (relating to Seller's and Purchaser's Responsibilities; Imposition of the Sales Tax; Collection by Retailer; Bracket System Formula; Determining City Tax, Administration of Use Tax; Collection by Retailer, Imposition of Sales Tax, and Administration of Use Tax; Imposition and Collection). (m) Use tax. If a seller of a taxable service is not doing business in Texas or a specific local taxing jurisdiction and is not required to, or does not voluntarily, collect and report the applicable Texas tax, it is the Texas customer's responsibility to report and pay the use tax directly to this office. (n) Property management companies. (1) Employees permanently assigned to one rental property are considered employees of that property when the property manager is reimbursed by the property owner on a dollar-for-dollar basis. On managed rental properties, the employees remain assigned to the property while employed by successive owners or management companies. The reimbursement charge for taxable services performed on a managed rental property by management company employees assigned to it will not be taxable. However, if these same employees provide real property services for other properties, the property manager must collect tax on the total charge for those services. The management company owes tax on the purchase price of all taxable items purchased and provided to the employees providing services on managed rental property. (2) Property management companies whose employees provide taxable services as part of their overall management and operation of a rental property need not collect tax on those services if their value is insignificant. (A) Such taxable services will be considered insignificant in any billing period in which their value is 5.0% or less of the amount charged by the management company for services. The amount charged by the management company for taxable services is to be determined by deducting from the management company's total charge any mortgage payments made by the management company for the property owner and any amounts paid to persons other than employees of the management company for goods and services. (B) If the value of the taxable services exceeds the 5.0% limit, the entire amount charged by the management company will be considered taxable unless charges for taxable services are separately itemized and taxed as provided under subsection (i)(2) of this section. (3) Purchases by the property management company for use by the property owner of taxable goods, labor, or services from third-party suppliers may be handled in either of the following ways: (A) the management company may issue a resale certificate to the supplier and collect tax from the property owner on the itemized charge for the goods, labor, or service; or (B) the management company may pay tax to the supplier and collect from the property owner an amount equal to the total of the amount paid by the management company for the goods, labor, or services and the tax paid."
71|§3.357|Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling, and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance. (Tax Code, §§151.0047, 151.0101, 151.056, 151.058, 151.311, 151.350, 151.429)|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=357|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in  this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly  indicates otherwise. (1) Consumable items--Nondurable tangible personal property  that is used to improve real property and that, after being used once for  its intended purpose, is completely used or destroyed. Examples include, but  are not limited to, nonreusable concrete forms, nonreusable drop cloths, barricade  tape, natural gas, and electricity. Consumable items do not include incorporated  materials, machinery, equipment, accessories to machinery and equipment, repair  and replacement parts of machinery and equipment, or any rented or leased  item. (2) Contractor--Any person who builds new improvements to residential  or nonresidential real property; completes any part of an uncompleted structure  that is an improvement to residential or nonresidential real property; makes  improvements to real property as part of periodic and scheduled maintenance  of nonresidential real property; or repairs, restores, maintains, or remodels  residential real property; and who, in making the improvement, incorporates  tangible personal property into the real property that is improved. The term  includes subcontractors but does not include material men, suppliers, or persons  who provide taxable real property services. Contractors should refer to §3.291  of this title (relating to Contractors). Persons who provide real property  services should refer to §3.356 of this title (relating to Real Property  Service). Persons who repair, restore, or remodel chemical plants or petrochemical  refineries should refer to §3.362 of this title (relating to Labor Relating  to Increasing Capacity in a Production Unit in a Petrochemical Refinery or  Chemical Plant). (3) Disaster area--An area that the Governor of Texas declares  a disaster under the Government Code, Chapter 418, or that the President of  the United States declares a disaster under 42 United States Code, §5141. (4) Equipment--Tangible personal property that is used in the  performance of a contract to improve real property, such as tools, machinery,  implements, accessories, repair and replacement parts, or any item that is  rented or leased. Equipment includes all items that do not meet the definitions  of consumable items or incorporated materials. (5) Incorporated materials--Tangible personal property that  loses its distinct and separate identity when incorporated into real property.  Examples of incorporated materials include framing lumber, bricks, concrete,  doors, and windows. (6) Labor--For the purposes of this section, labor means all  components of a transaction or contract directly related to the remodeling,  repair, or restoration other than those components attributable to materials  incorporated into the realty. Unrelated components, such as charges by engineers  and architects, are also part of the labor component unless separately stated  to the customer. (7) Maintenance on real property--For operational and functional  improvements to realty, maintenance means scheduled, periodic work that is  necessary to sustain or support safe, efficient, continuous operations, or  to prevent the decline, failure, lapse, or deterioration of the improvement.  Taxable real property services that are described by §3.356 of this title  (relating to Real Property Service) do not qualify as maintenance. Maintenance  does not include work to remodel, modify, upgrade, perform major repair, or  restore, even if the work is scheduled or periodic. (A) As it relates to maintenance, the term ""scheduled"" means  anticipated and designated to occur within a given time period or production  level. (B) As it relates to maintenance, the term ""periodic"" means  ongoing or continual or at least occurring at intervals of time or production  that are reasonably predictable. (C) The scheduled shutdown or turnaround of a manufacturing  or processing plant is considered to be maintenance within the meaning of  this definition. (8) New construction--All new improvements to real property  including initial finish out work to the interior or exterior of the improvement.  An example is a multiple story building that has had only its first floor  finished and occupied. The initial finish out of each additional floor before  initial occupancy or use is considered new construction. New construction  also includes the addition of new, usable square footage to an existing structure.  Examples are the addition of a new wing onto an existing building, or the  addition of a new mezzanine level within an existing building. Reallocation  of existing square footage inside a structure is remodeling and does not constitute  the addition of new, usable square footage. For example, the removal or relocation  of interior walls to expand the size of a room, or the finish out of an office  space that was previously used for storage, is remodeling. Raising the ceiling  of a room or the roof of a building is not new construction unless new, usable  square footage is created. (9) Prior contract--A written contract, or a written bid that  becomes a written contract, into which the parties enter before the effective  date of the applicable section of the Tax Code. See §3.319 of this title  (relating to Prior Contracts). (10) Real property--Land, including structures and other improvements  that are embedded into or permanently affixed to the land. (11) Remodeling or modification--To rebuild, replace, alter,  modify, or upgrade existing real property. However, the replacement of an  item that is within an operational and functional improvement to realty is  not taxable remodeling or modification when the work is scheduled and periodic  maintenance as defined in paragraph (7) of this subsection. Improvements to  manufacturing or production units of chemical plants or petrochemical refineries  that meet the definition of increased capacity are not remodeling or modification  services. See §3.362 of this title (relating to Labor Relating to Increasing  Capacity in a Production Unit in a Petrochemical Refinery or Chemical Plant).  Work that is performed after the initial finish out has been completed is  remodeling even when the improvement has not been occupied or used. For example,  a prospective tenant wants the unit of a completely finished out shopping  complex repainted before the tenant leases the unit. The repainting is remodeling.  Partial demolition of existing nonresidential realty is taxable remodeling.  The complete demolition of an existing nonresidential improvement to real  property is neither remodeling nor modification and is not taxable. (12) Repair--To mend or bring back real property that was broken,  damaged, or defective as near as possible to its original working order. However,  minor repair work that is performed on operational and functional improvements  to realty is not taxable repair if the work is done in accordance with paragraph  (7) of this subsection. (13) Residential property--Property that is used as a family  dwelling, multifamily apartment or housing complex, nursing home, condominium,  or retirement home. The term includes homeowners association-owned and apartment-owned  swimming pools, laundry rooms, and other common areas for tenants\' use. Common  areas of mixed residential and nonresidential property are allocated or prorated  based on the ratio of residential to nonresidential use of the property. The  term does not include any commercial area open to nonresidents, retail outlets,  hospitals, hotels, or any other facilities that are subject to the hotel occupancy  tax. (14) Restoration--An activity that is performed to bring back  real property that is still operational and functional but that has faded,  declined, or deteriorated, as near as possible to its original condition.  Minor restorative work that is performed within the meaning of paragraph (7)  of this subsection is maintenance, not restoration. (15) Unrelated service. A service is unrelated if: (A) it is not the repair, remodeling, or restoration of nonresidential  real property, nor a service or labor that is taxable under any other provision  of the Tax Code, Chapter 151; (B) it is of a type that is commonly provided on a stand-alone  basis; and (C) the performance of the service is distinct and identifiable.  Examples of unrelated services that may be excluded from the tax base are  the creation of engineering plans or architectural designs, new construction,  increased capacity, and maintenance on real property. (b) Tax responsibilities of persons who repair, remodel, or  restore nonresidential real property. (1) All persons who repair, restore, or remodel nonresidential  real property must obtain Texas sales and use tax permits. Persons who construct  new improvements to realty, perform maintenance on real property, or repair,  restore, or remodel residential real property should refer to §3.291  of this title (relating to Contractors). (2) All persons who repair, restore, or remodel nonresidential  real property must collect tax on the total sales price to the customer less  separately stated charges for unrelated services. The total sales price does  not include Texas sales or use tax that the service provider must collect  from customers. See §3.286 of this title (relating to Seller\'s and Purchaser\'s  Responsibilities). The service provider may, in good faith, accept valid resale,  exemption, or direct payment exemption certificates in lieu of tax. Previously,  lump-sum and separated contracts were treated differently for tax purposes.  This distinction is no longer valid when the contract is for the repair, remodeling,  or restoration of nonresidential real property. (3) A contract that involves both nonresidential repair, restoration,  or remodeling and new construction is taxable in total unless the charge for  new construction labor is separately stated to the customer as outlined in  paragraph (7) of this subsection. An example is remodeling a restaurant\'s  kitchen at the same time that a new dining area outside the existing structure  is added. Work on the kitchen is taxable as remodeling, while the construction  of the new dining area is nontaxable new construction. Minor repair, restoration,  or remodeling that is performed in connection with new construction is not  taxable if the portion of the charge that is attributed to repair, restoration,  or remodeling is 5.0% or less of the overall lump-sum charge. All separately  stated charges for repair, restoration, remodeling, or other taxable services  are taxable, even if they constitute 5.0% or less of the total contract price. (4) All persons who repair, restore, or remodel nonresidential  real property owe tax at the time of purchase on all machinery, equipment,  materials, and supplies that are used but not incorporated into the realty.  The service provider is not entitled to a credit for tax paid on taxable items  that are used but not incorporated into the realty. (5) Items used in performing repairs, remodeling, or restoration  for exempt entities. (A) Persons who repair, remodel, or restore real property or  make improvements to real property for entities exempted by Tax Code, §151.309  or §151.310, may claim an exemption for tangible personal property used  in those activities if the tangible personal property is incorporated into  real property in the performance of the contract. (B) Person who repair, remodel, or restore real property or  make improvements to real property for entities that are exempted under Tax  Code, §151.309 or §151.310, may claim an exemption for the purchase  of taxable services that are used in those activities if the service is performed  at the job site and if the contract requires the specific service to be provided  or purchased by the person who makes the improvement to realty, or the service  is integral to the performance of the contract. (C) Persons who use consumable items in the improvement of  realty that is repaired, remodeled, or restored for entities that are exempt  under Tax Code, §151.309 or §151.310, may claim an exemption for  the purchase of a consumable item if use of the item is necessary for the  performance of the contract and the item is completely consumed at the job  site. (D) Persons who repair, restore, or remodel real property may  issue a properly completed exemption certificate in lieu of tax for the purchase  of items that are identified in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of this paragraph.  The exemption certificate must show the service provider as the purchaser  and must identify the exempt entity for whom the improvements are made and  the project for which the items are purchased. (6) Repair, restoration, or remodeling that is performed upon  a structure that is used both for residential and commercial purposes is taxable  in total unless the labor on the residence is separately identified. The labor  to repair, restore, or remodel the residence will not be taxable if separately  stated. The charge for repair, restoration, or remodeling to common areas  of mixed residential and nonresidential property is taxed based upon the ratio  of residential to nonresidential use of the property. (7) If a combination of repair, restoration, or remodeling  and new construction is performed under the same contract, and the repair,  restoration, or remodeling portion exceeds 5.0% of the overall charge, then  the parties to the contract must separately identify taxable and nontaxable  labor along with the charges that apply to each or else the entire contract  is presumed to be for repair, restoration, and remodeling and is taxable.  Both parties must retain documentation that clearly defines the work that  is performed to show that, had the new construction and remodeling been done  independently, the charge for each would reasonably approximate the amount  allocated. Examples Cont\'d...', ""of acceptable documentation are written contracts that  detail the scope of work, bid sheets, tally sheets, schedules of values, and  blueprints. If no written contract clearly shows agreement on the taxable  and nontaxable work that is performed, then the customer and the service provider  must prepare a written certification that verifies the allocation of charges  for repair, restoration, or remodeling and new construction. The comptroller  may recalculate the charges if the allocation appears unreasonable, and either  party may be held responsible for the additional tax due. (8) Repainting is presumed to be a restoration or remodeling  activity. Either party may overcome the presumption by showing that the scope  of the work meets the definition of maintenance found in subsection (a)(7)  of this section. Persons who perform repainting or other restoration activities  should collect sales tax on the total charge to the customer unless the customer  provides a properly completed exemption certificate as outlined in subsection  (c)(2) or (4) of this section. (9) If a combination of taxable services (e.g., repair of nonresidential  property), nontaxable services (e.g., new construction, residential repair,  or maintenance), and nontaxable unrelated services are sold or purchased for  a single charge and the portion that relates to taxable services represents  more than 5.0% of the total charge, the total charge is presumed to be taxable.  The service provider may overcome this presumption by submission of documentary  evidence that establishes the percentages of the total charge that relate  to taxable services and to nontaxable services. Examples of acceptable documentation  include written contracts that detail the scope of work, bid sheets, tally  sheets, schedules of values, and blueprints. (c) Tax responsibilities of persons who perform maintenance  on real property. (1) A person who performs maintenance on real property and  incorporates tangible personal property into the realty acts as a contractor  and is subject to §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors). (2) A person who performs maintenance on real property and  does not incorporate tangible personal property into the realty as part of  that service provides nontaxable services and owes tax on all taxable items  that are used to perform those services. (d) Exemptions, exceptions, and exclusions. (1) A person who performs taxable services has the burden of  obtaining an exemption certificate for any exemption that a customer claims.  However, if the customer is a governmental entity, a purchase order from the  governmental entity is sufficient documentation. (2) Maintenance on real property is a nontaxable service. (A) To qualify a purchase as nontaxable real property maintenance,  a service provider's customer must prove by way of maintenance schedules or  work orders or other similar forms of evidence that the services meet the  definition of maintenance on real property that is stated in subsection (a)(7)  of this section. If the service provider does not have a written contract,  but is only hired on a per job basis, then the service provider must presume  that the service is repair or restoration and must therefore collect tax.  If the customer has documentation to prove that the service qualifies as maintenance,  then the customer may issue to the service provider an exemption certificate  in lieu of paying tax or provide the documentation required to overcome the  presumption. The certificate must state that the labor is maintenance as defined  in subsection (a)(7) of this section, rather than repair or restoration as  defined in subsection (a)(13) and (15) of this section, and that the customer  is liable for any additional tax that is due in the event that the comptroller  determines that a taxable service was performed. (B) Repairs or restoration that are performed under a claimed  maintenance contract will not change a nontaxable maintenance contract into  a taxable repair or restoration contract so long as the charges that are attributable  to the repairs or restoration are 5.0% or less of the overall charge. Note:  The 5.0% test applies to each contract and subcontract. For example, if five  different companies provide lump-sum contracts for services, then each contract  stands alone for the purposes of determining whether the taxable services  are 5.0% or less of that contract. In the absence of a written contract, the  5.0% test will apply to the total charge billed by each service provider. (C) A contract that includes maintenance and repair or restoration  will be taxable in total if the charges for repairs and/or restoration services  exceed 5.0% of the total charges and are not separately identified to the  customer in the contract or billing. All separately stated charges for repair,  restoration, remodeling, or other taxable services are taxable, even when  the taxable services constitute 5.0% or less of the total contract price. (3) The modification of parts of existing structures solely  to support the addition of new space will not change a new construction contract  into a remodeling contract so long as the charges that are attributable to  remodeling are 5.0% or less of the overall charge. Examples are conversion  of a one-story building into a two-story building with the addition of a stairway  to the existing structure to provide access to the new space, or the removal  of an existing wall to allow the addition of structural support in the process  of construction of a new room outside of the existing structure. Contracts  with remodeling charges that exceed 5.0% are taxable in total unless the charges  for remodeling are separately identified to the customer. However, see subsection  (b)(9) of this section. (4) A service provider may accept a properly completed exemption  certificate in place of tax for the separately stated charges for labor to  remodel, restore, or repair buildings that are listed in the National Register  of Historic Places. The service provider is a contractor under §3.291  of this title (relating to Contractors). (5) A service provider may accept a properly completed exemption  certificate in lieu of tax for both materials and labor charges from an entity  that is exempt under Tax Code, §151.309 or §151.310(a)(3), (4),  or (5), or that is exempt under Texas Civil Statutes. A service provider may  accept a properly completed exemption certificate for both materials and labor  charges from an entity that is exempted by Tax Code, §151.310(a)(1) or  (2), if the repair, restoration, or remodeling appears reasonably related  to the exempt purpose of the organization. See §3.322 of this title (relating  to Exempt Organizations). (6) A service provider who enters into a contract with a nonexempt  entity to improve real property for the primary use and benefit of an entity  that is exempted under Tax Code, §151.309 or §151.310, may accept  a properly completed exemption certificate in lieu of tax. If the improvement  is for the primary use and benefit of an entity that is exempted under Tax  Code §151.310(a)(1) or (2), then the primary use and benefit must relate  to the exempt purpose of that entity. (7) A service provider who enters into a contract with a nonexempt  entity to add improvements to real property that will become government property  may accept a properly completed exemption certificate if the nonexempt entity  dedicates the real property and the improvement to a governmental entity before  any work begins and the governmental entity accepts the real property and  the improvement. If, at a later date, the governmental entity fails to accept  the improvement, the non-exempt entity will owe tax on the service. (8) A service provider may accept a properly completed exemption  certificate from a manufacturer for separately stated charges for equipment  that qualifies for the manufacturing exemption. See §3.300 of this title  (relating to Manufacturing; Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating; Processing). (9) The labor to repair real or tangible personal property  that is damaged within a disaster area by the condition or occurrence that  caused the area to be declared a disaster area is exempt from tax if the charge  for labor is separately stated to the customer. The materials that are used  to perform the repairs are taxable. A person who has property repaired under  this paragraph should issue to the service provider an exemption certificate  in lieu of tax. The service provider must presume that all work is taxable  until the customer issues an exemption certificate that covers the separately  stated labor portion of the bill. If the charge for the repair is lump-sum,  the total charge is taxable. (10) No sales tax is due on the wages or salary paid by an  employer to an employee who provides the labor to repair, remodel, or restore  real property that belongs to and is used by the employer. A person is considered  the employee of the employer if the employer pays the person's wages or salary,  withholds applicable federal taxes from the employee's wages or salary, pays  employment-related benefits such as health insurance, and exercises direct  control over the work that the employee performs. (e) Resale certificates. (1) Persons who repair, restore, and remodel real property  may issue a resale certificate in lieu of tax to suppliers of tangible personal  property only if the tangible personal property will be incorporated into  the customer's realty. For example, a repairman or remodeler purchases paint  to repaint a repaired or remodeled area. The paint is transferred to the customer  as a part of the finished job. The repairman or remodeler may purchase the  paint tax free by issuing a resale certificate. Tax is due on the total amount  that is charged the customer, including amounts that are charged for the paint  and for the services. A resale certificate may not be issued for materials  and supplies used or consumed by the repairman or remodeler that are not incorporated  into the customer's realty. (2) A resale certificate may be issued for a service if the  buyer intends to transfer the service as an integral part of taxable services.  A service will be considered as an integral part of a taxable service if the  service purchased is essential to the performance of the taxable service and  is of a type without which the taxable service could not be performed. Examples  of services for which a resale certificate may be issued in lieu of tax are  landscaping and surveying services if the landscaping or surveying is performed  upon the property that is remodeled. (f) Local taxes. Local taxes (city, county, transit authority,  city transit department, and special purpose districts) apply to services  in the same way as they apply to tangible personal property. (1) Generally, service providers must collect local sales taxes  if their place of business is within a local taxing jurisdiction, even if  the service is actually provided at a location outside that jurisdiction. (2) Transit sales taxes do not apply to services that are provided  outside the boundaries of a transit area. (3) If the service provider's place of business is outside  a local taxing jurisdiction but the service is provided to a customer who  is located within a local taxing jurisdiction, then local use taxes apply  and the service provider is required to collect the local taxes. (4) For information on the collection and reporting responsibilities  of providers and purchasers of taxable services, see §3.374 of this title  (relating to Collection and Allocation of the City Sales Tax), §3.375  of this title (relating to City Use Tax), §3.424 of this title (relating  to Collection and Allocation of Transit Sales Tax), and §3.425 of this  title (relating to Transit Use Tax). (g) Use tax. If a seller of a service is not engaged in business  in Texas or in a specific local taxing jurisdiction, and is not required to  collect Texas tax, then the Texas customer must report and pay the use tax  directly to the Texas comptroller. (h) Enterprise project. An entity that qualifies as an enterprise  project may qualify to claim a refund of sales tax that is paid on the total  charge for nonresidential repair, restoration, or remodeling. See §3.329  of this title (relating to Enterprise Projects, Enterprise Zones, and Defense  Readjustment Zones). (i) Prior contracts. Prior contracts that are signed before  the effective date of a statutory change that affects nonresidential real  property repair, remodeling, and restoration shall be governed by the provisions  of §3.319 of this title (relating to Prior Contracts)."
72|§3.358|Maquiladoras|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=358|(a) Maquiladora enterprise. Maquiladora enterprise means a business entity chartered by the government of the United Mexican States and authorized by that government to make duty-free imports of raw materials, component parts, or other property into Mexico to be used in manufacturing, processing, or assembling items by the business entity in Mexico primarily for export from Mexico. (b) Maquiladora permits. (1) Any maquiladora enterprise wishing to make tax-free purchases in Texas for export to Mexico may apply to the comptroller for a maquiladora export permit. (2) The applicant must provide copies of their maquiladora authorization form issued by the Mexican Secretaria De Comercio Y Fomento Industrial showing the number by which they are listed in the registry of in-bond companies. They must also post any bond or security the comptroller may require. (3) When the application is complete, the comptroller will issue at no charge a numbered maquiladora export permit which will be valid until canceled by either the maquiladora enterprise or the comptroller. (c) Security required. The comptroller may require a maquiladora enterprise to post a bond or other security in the amount the comptroller considers reasonable to ensure the payment of state and local sales and use taxes. (d) Permit cancellation. (1) The comptroller may suspend or revoke a maquiladora export permit to make tax-free purchases under this section without notice for good cause. Examples of acts which will be considered good cause to suspend a permit include failure to provide an updated maquiladora authorization form or other records upon request, to post a required bond, or to file returns and pay all tax due in a timely fashion. (2) Any enterprise whose maquiladora authorization is canceled or not renewed by the Mexican Secretaria De Comercio Y Fomento Industrial must immediately notify the comptroller to cancel their maquiladora export permit. (3) Any enterprise whose maquiladora export permit is either voluntarily forfeited or canceled by action of the comptroller's office must immediately notify in writing all persons to whom they have issued a maquiladora exemption certificate advising that the exemption certificate issued to them pursuant to the maquiladora export permit is no longer valid. (e) Tax-free purchases. A maquiladora export permit holder may make tax-free purchases of goods for export to Mexico. To claim the exemption, the purchaser must give the supplier: (1) a blanket maquiladora exemption certificate; and (2) a copy of their maquiladora export permit issued by the comptroller of public accounts. (f) Records. An applicant for a maquiladora export permit must agree to retain records in accordance with §3.281 of this title (relating to Records Required; Information Required) and §3.323(c)(1) of this title (relating to Imports and Exports). The records must establish whether the items purchased by them were actually exported to Mexico. (1) Records may be kept in either the United States or Mexico, but the applicant must agree to make them available in Texas upon request. (2) Records must be kept for four years, unless the comptroller authorizes in writing a shorter retention period. (g) Reports. (1) Each person holding a maquiladora export permit must file a report of its tax-free purchases and pay the tax required under the Tax Code, §151.101, for any goods used or consumed in Texas. Items may be stored in this state prior to export to Mexico without incurring a tax liability. (2) Reports required under this section must be filed on a quarterly basis on a form prescribed by the comptroller and must include any payment due. Reports must be postmarked by the 20th day of month following the end of the calendar quarter unless that day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, in which case the report must be postmarked by the next business day. (3) Payments made after the due date will incur a 5.0% penalty for the first 1-30 days that the payment is late. An additional 5.0% penalty will be assessed for payments that are made 31-60 days late. Interest at a rate of 10% will begin to accrue as of the 61st day after the due date and will continue until payment is made. (h) Sales. A maquiladora enterprise that sells taxable items, including used equipment, in this state must obtain a sales tax permit and collect and remit tax on the transaction. A maquiladora enterprise may not make a tax-free occasional sale in this state unless the sale is qualified under §3.316(d) or (e) of this title (relating to Occasional Sales). If a maquiladora makes a sale and claims it is exempt under §3.316(d) or (e) of this title (relating to Occasional Sales), he must provide the purchaser with a statement to that effect. (i) Form of certificate. A maquiladora exemption certificate must be substantially in the form set out as follows.Attached Graphic
73|§3.360|Customs Brokers|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=360|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Authorized employee--A person who is authorized  by their employer to perform customs transactions or related services  on behalf of the employer, is compensated by the employer with a regular  salary or wages, is under the direct control and supervision of the  employer, and from whose salary or wages the employer is required  to and actually does deduct and withhold a tax under federal law.  This definition applies to employees of customs brokers and employees  of verification contractors. (2) Certification identification number--The number  generated by the comptroller\'s website used to prepare export certification  forms as described in subsection (k) of this section. (3) Licensed customs broker--A person who is licensed  by the United States Customs and Border Protection to act as a customs  broker and who holds a Texas Customs Broker License issued by the  comptroller as provided for in this section. (4) Original receipt--The final documentation of a  sale provided by the retailer at the time of purchase or when purchased  items are received. An original receipt may be in either physical  or electronic format, but may not be a record such as a duplicate,  reprint, or copy used by the retailer for internal purposes.  (5) Purchaser Identification Number--A number issued  by a purchaser\'s country of residence for purposes of identification.  For example, a purchaser from the United Mexican States may have as  a purchaser identification number either a ""Registro Federal de Contribuyente""  or ""Registro Federal de Causante"" (collectively ""RFC""), or a ""Clave  Unica de Registro de la Población"" (Unique Code to Register  the Population or ""CURP""). (6) Total value of property--The sales price, as shown  on original receipts and invoices, of all property for which a licensed  customs broker issued export certification forms during a calendar  quarter. (7) Total amount of tax on property--The total amount  of all Texas state and local sales and use taxes paid on property  for which a licensed customs broker issued export certification forms  during a calendar quarter. (8) Total amount of tax refunded--The total amount  of all Texas state and local sales and use taxes that retailers refunded  to a customs broker during a calendar quarter. (9) Verification contractor--An independent contractor  who, for consideration and under a written contract with a licensed  customs broker, monitors the export of property on behalf of a licensed  customs broker as provided in subsection (b)(1) of this section. Unless  the context clearly indicates otherwise, all references in this section  to a verification contractor include an authorized employee of a verification  contractor. (b) Certification of exports. Only a licensed customs  broker or an authorized employee of a licensed customs broker may  fully or partially prepare, issue, and/or sign a valid export certification  form as provided for in this section and in §3.323 of this title  (relating to Imports and Exports). A retailer who receives documentation  that is valid under this section certifying that delivery was made  to a point outside of the territorial limits of the United States  should refer to §3.323(e) of this title for information regarding  refunds. A licensed customs broker, or an authorized employee of the  customs broker, may issue an export certification form only if the  customs broker or authorized employee: (1) personally witnesses, or a verification contractor  personally witnesses, the transportation of property across the border  of the United States; (2) personally witnesses the property being placed  on a common carrier for delivery outside the territorial limits of  the United States; or (3) verifies by performing all of the following actions  that the purchaser is transporting the property to a destination outside  of the territorial limits of the United States: (A) examines a passport, laser visa identification  card, or picture foreign voter registration identification that proves  that the purchaser of the property resides in a foreign country; (B) requires that the documentation examined under  subparagraph (A) of this paragraph have a unique purchaser identification  number for that purchaser; (C) requires that the purchaser produce the property  and the original receipt for the property so the customs broker or  authorized employee can verify that the property is the same property  as described in the purchaser\'s original receipt. The comptroller  shall limit to six the number of original receipts for which a single  proof of export documentation may be issued under this section; (D) requires that the purchaser state the foreign country  of destination, which must be the foreign country in which the purchaser  resides, the date and time the property is expected to arrive in the  foreign country destination, the date and time the property was purchased,  the name and address of the retailer from whom the purchaser bought  the property, the sales price and quantity of the property, and a  description of the property; (E) requires that the purchaser and the customs broker  or an authorized employee sign in the presence of each other a form  prepared or approved by the comptroller: (i) that states the purchaser has provided the information  and documentation required in this paragraph; (ii) that states ""Providing false information to a  customs broker is a Class B misdemeanor"" clearly on the form; and (iii) that contains a notice to the purchaser that  property not exported to a foreign country is subject to Texas sales  and use tax and the purchaser is liable for payment of an amount equal  to the value of the property, as well as other possible civil liabilities  and criminal penalties, if the purchaser improperly obtains a refund  of taxes relating to the property; (F) requires that the purchaser produce the following  travel documentation for inspection by the customs broker or authorized  employee: (i) if the purchase was made in a county that does  not border the United Mexican States, the purchaser\'s Form I-94, Arrival/Departure  record, or its successor, as issued by the United States Customs and  Border Protection; or (ii) if the customs broker is located in a county that  does not border the United Mexican States, the purchaser\'s travel  documentation, e.g., airline or bus ticket; and (G) requires the purchaser and the customs broker or  an authorized employee, when using a power of attorney form to attest,  as a part of the form and in the presence of each other: (i) that the purchaser has provided the information  and documentation required by this paragraph; and (ii) that the purchaser is on notice that tangible  personal property not exported is subject to taxation under this chapter  and the purchaser is liable, in addition to other possible civil liabilities  and criminal penalties, for payment of an amount equal to the value  of the merchandise if the purchaser improperly obtained a refund of  taxes relating to the property; (4) circles, and writes or states ""exported"" next to,  each item to be exported on purchaser\'s original receipt; and (5) if the property is verified in accordance with  paragraph (3)(C) of this subsection at a time not contemporaneous  with the issuance of the certification of export, the customs broker  or an authorized employee, in addition to writing or stating ""exported""  next to each item to be exported on purchaser\'s original receipt,  must write or state on each original receipt the date and time the  property was verified for export, as well as the full printed name  of the person making the verification. (c) Texas Customs Broker License; prerequisites. A  person may apply to the comptroller for a Texas Customs Broker License,  which is a license to issue export certification forms for the purpose  of claiming exemption from Texas sales and use taxes. To obtain a  license, a person must: (1) be currently licensed by the United States Customs  and Border Protection to act as a customs broker; (2) submit an application in the form prescribed by  the comptroller; (3) pay an annual license fee of $300 for each place  of business from which the customs broker intends to issue export  certification forms; (4) post a bond or security as required in subsection  (h) of this section; and (5) be current in payment of all taxes and fees administered  by the comptroller. (d) Form of application. The comptroller will prescribe  an application form for a Texas Customs Broker License, which must  include or be accompanied by the following: (1) a copy of the applicant\'s license to act as a customs  broker issued by the United States Customs and Border Protection; (2) the applicant\'s name, mailing address, primary  business address, business telephone number, home address, and home  telephone number, and the names, home addresses, and home telephone  numbers of all the general partners (if the applicant is a partnership),  the formation/registration number, formation/registration date, federal  Employer Identification Number, and the names, home addresses, and  home telephone numbers of the officers and directors (if the applicant  is a corporation), or the names, home addresses, and home telephone  numbers of the members (if the applicant is an entity other than a  partnership or corporation); (3) the names, mailing addresses, primary business  addresses, business telephone numbers, home addresses, and home telephone  numbers of all verification contractors and all authorized employees  of verification contractors, and the names, home addresses, and home  telephone numbers of all the general partners (if the verification  contractor is a partnership), the formation/registration number, formation/registration  date, federal Employer Identification Number, and the names, home  addresses, and home telephone numbers of the officers and directors  (if the verification contractor is a corporation), or the names, home  addresses, and home telephone numbers of the members (if the verification  contractor is an entity other than a partnership or corporation),  and the date of contract of all verification contractors; (4) the names, home addresses, and home telephone numbers  of all employees who are authorized to certify exports in the name  of the applicant and the date of hire of all such employees; (5) a copy of each authorized employee\'s power of attorney  to certify exports in the name of the applicant; (6) the trade name of the applicant\'s business and  the address of each location where export certifications are to be  fully or partially prepared; (7) the original signature or signatures of the applicant  (if the applicant is a sole proprietor), an officer or director (if  the applicant is a corporation), all general partners (if the applicant  is a partnership), or an authorized member (if the applicant is an  entity other than a corporation or partnership), and the original  signatures of all authorized employees of the customs broker; (8) the social security number of each authorized employee,  verification contractor, and authorized employee of a verification  contractor, and the social security number of the applicant (if the  applicant is a sole proprietor), each general partner (if the applicant  is a partnership), each officer and director (if the applicant is  a corporation), or each member (if the applicant is an entity other  than a partnership or corporation); and (9) any other information the comptroller requires. (e) Annual customs broker license and fee. An annual  customs broker\'s license issued under this section continues in effect  through December 31st each year unless canceled by the customs broker  or suspended or revoked by the comptroller before the expiration date.  All expired, canceled, suspended, or revoked licenses must be immediately  returned to the comptroller or they will be subject to confiscation.  The annual license fee is non-refundable but the fee may be prorated  on a calendar year $75 per-quarter basis as follows: (1) $300 fee for a license with an effective date beginning  January 1st through March 31st; (2) $225 fee for a license with an effective date beginning  April 1st through June 30th; (3) $150 fee for a license with an effective date beginning  July 1st through September 30th; or (4) $75 fee for a license with an effective date beginning  October 1st through December 31st. (f) Display of license. An original Texas Customs Broker  License must be prominently displayed at each place of business of  the customs broker where export certification forms are fully or partially  prepared. (g) Locations outside the United States. No Texas Customs  Broker Licenses will be issued for locations beyond the territorial  limits of the State of Texas. (h) Bond or security. A licensed customs broker is  required to post a bond or security in the amount of $5,000, plus  an additional $1,000 for each place of business from which the customs  broker intends to issue export certification forms. (1) The security may be in the form of cash, a certificate  of deposit, a letter of credit, or another instrument of value acceptable  as security to the comptroller. Cont\'d...', ""(2) The comptroller may forfeit a customs broker's  bond or security and apply the amount to any liabilities due for unpaid  taxes, penalties, interest, license fees, stamp fees, and other penalties  imposed for any violations of the Tax Code or this section.  (3) A licensed customs broker, who has a bond or security  forfeited by the comptroller, must immediately post another bond or  security as required by the comptroller. (4) A customs broker must send the comptroller a written  request to obtain release of the bond or security once the broker  has ceased to do business in Texas. The comptroller may release a  bond or security once a customs broker has ceased doing business in  Texas and the comptroller verifies that the customs broker has no  outstanding liabilities or penalties due. (i) Verification contractors. A licensed customs broker  may enter into a written contract with a verification contractor to  facilitate the monitoring of exports certified by the customs broker.  A verification contractor may authorize by power of attorney their  full-time or part-time employee to perform verification services on  their behalf. A verification contractor may not fully or partially  prepare, issue, and/or sign export certification forms and may not  affix export certification stamps to export certification forms. A  verification contractor's contract must be submitted to and approved  by the comptroller before the verification contractor may perform  export verification services. (j) Export certification stamps. The comptroller will  produce or have produced export certification stamps to be affixed  to export certification forms. (1) The comptroller may change the design as often  as necessary for the enforcement of this section. The design will  be changed at least once each calendar quarter. (2) Only a licensed customs broker or authorized employee  may receive stamps. A person obtaining stamps in person must present  photo identification. (3) There is a $2.10 fee for each stamp. (4) The stamps are non-transferable. A stamp is void  if transferred to a person other than the customs broker to whom the  comptroller originally issued the stamp or to that customs broker's  authorized employee. This paragraph does not apply to a stamp that  is actually affixed to an export certification form that is transferred  in compliance with this section. (5) All unused, expired stamps must be returned to  the comptroller within 15 working days of the end of each calendar  quarter. All such stamps must be delivered to the comptroller on the  same date, at the same time, and to the same location. Unused stamps  must be immediately returned to the comptroller upon cancellation,  suspension, or revocation of the customs broker's license or upon  notification that the customs broker is out of business and may be  confiscated if not returned. Unused, expired stamps may not be retained,  destroyed, or disposed of except by the comptroller. The comptroller  will allow a licensed customs broker credit for returned unused stamps.  Such credit must be used to purchase new stamps. A licensed customs  broker who ceases to do business in Texas must return all unused stamps  within 15 working days of the customs broker's last day of business.  The comptroller shall refund an out-of-business customs broker an  amount of $2.10 for each returned unused stamp. (6) As soon as practicable after discovery, a customs  broker must report in writing to the comptroller the theft, destruction,  or other loss of stamps issued to the customs broker, including the  numbers assigned to the lost stamps (if the comptroller has numbered  the stamps sequentially). No credit or refund will be allowed for  stamps lost, destroyed, or stolen, unless the customs broker provides  sufficient documentation that the stamps were stolen or destroyed. (7) A customs broker must notify the comptroller as  soon as practicable in writing if the customs broker has no remaining  inventory of stamps following use, theft, and/or other loss of the  stamps. (k) Preparation of documentation. The comptroller will  maintain a password-protected website that a licensed customs broker,  or an authorized employee of a licensed customs broker, must use to  prepare export certification forms. (1) A licensed customs broker, or an authorized employee  of a licensed customs broker, is required to use the website to prepare  export certification forms and must provide all information as required  by the comptroller. Failure to use the website to prepare export certification  forms while the website is available is a violation under subsection  (q) of this section. (2) When the comptroller's website is available but  a licensed customs broker, or an authorized employee of a licensed  customs broker, is unable to use the system due to technical or communications  problems, the licensed customs broker or authorized employee must  notify the comptroller prior to issuing manual export certifications.  The licensed customs broker, or authorized employee, may provide the  notification by calling 1-888-434-5464 and following an automated  menu to enter the licensed customs broker's 11-digit taxpayer number  and the location number. The licensed customs broker, or authorized  employee, must contact the comptroller again every 48-hours for as  long as the customs broker is unable to use the website. The licensed  customs broker, or authorized employee, must enter the export certification  information using the website no later than 48-hours after the technical  or communications problems are resolved. (3) When the comptroller's website is unavailable due  to routine maintenance by the comptroller or technical or communications  problems experienced by the comptroller, a licensed customs broker,  or an authorized employee of a licensed customs broker, may issue  manual export certification forms without notifying the comptroller's  office in advance. The licensed customs broker, or authorized employee,  must enter such export certification information using the website  within 48-hours after the website becomes available. Failure to enter  such documentation no later than 48-hours is a violation under subsection  (q) of this section. (l) Reports required. A licensed customs broker is  required to file a report quarterly on a form prescribed by the comptroller. (1) The quarterly report must be signed by the licensed  customs broker or by the licensed customs broker's duly authorized  agent and must include the following information: (A) the total value of property for which the licensed  customs broker issued export certifications that quarter; (B) the total amount of tax on property for which the  licensed customs broker issued export certifications that quarter;  and (C) the total amount of tax refunded in accordance  with export certifications issued by the licensed customs broker that  quarter. (2) The customs broker report is due on the 20th day  of the month following the end of each calendar quarter reporting  period. For example, the first quarter report period is January, February,  and March, and the due date is April 20th. If the 20th is a Saturday,  Sunday, or legal holiday, the report is due the next business day.  To be considered timely, a report must be either postmarked or received  by the comptroller on or before the due date of the report. (3) Failure to receive the correct report form from  the comptroller does not relieve a customs broker of the responsibility  to file a report. (4) A penalty of $500 is imposed for each report filed  after the due date. The comptroller shall also impose an additional  $50 penalty for each late report filed. (m) Records required. A licensed customs broker must  maintain books and records that include, at a minimum, the following: (1) an exact photographic image of the export certification  stamp and of each export certification form signed by the customs  broker within the last two years. Carbon copies and pages from multi-page  forms are acceptable in lieu of photocopies, provided the number of  the export certification stamp affixed to the original is recorded  on the additional copies; (2) a ledger that: (A) lists sequentially all export certification forms  issued or voided within the last two years; (B) identifies the person or persons who fully or partially  prepared, issued, and/or signed each form; and (C) identifies the person's or persons' relationship  to the licensed customs broker; (3) an inventory of export certification stamps and  records tracking transfers of stamps between the customs broker and  authorized employees, identifying the recipients and showing the dates  of transfer, quantities transferred, the sequential numbers of the  transferred stamps (if the comptroller has numbered the stamps sequentially),  and detailed records regarding stamps that have been lost, stolen,  or are otherwise unaccounted for; (4) a current list of all employees authorized to fully  or partially prepare, issue, and/or sign export certification forms  and information relating to the hiring and termination of the authorized  employees; (5) all contracts executed between the customs broker  and verification contractors and information relating to the termination  or cancellation of such contracts; (6) exact copies of all invoices, receipts, passports,  laser visa identification cards, foreign voter registration picture  identification, I-94 forms, air, land, or water travel documentation,  or other documents relating to property whose export the customs broker  has certified. This requirement specifically applies to documentation  that must be verified by a customs broker under subsection (b)(3)  of this section. The requirement also applies to other documentation  if the customs broker attached such copies to the original form as  provided in subsection (p)(6) of this section; (7) a copy of a certified check, company check, or  money order made payable to the purchaser, or a credit memo or cash  receipt signed by the purchaser, and the purchaser's written assignment  of the right to a Texas sales or use tax refund for each instance  in which the customs broker obtained a refund assignment from the  purchaser; (8) detailed records showing the amount the customs  broker charges clients for their export certification services and  the customs broker's gross receipts from certifying exports; (9) information described in subsection (d) of this  section, updated and kept current since the date of application; and (10) detailed records of when an authorized employee  is terminated, quits, is no longer authorized to complete export certification  forms, or whose power of attorney is withdrawn. A licensed customs  broker is required to notify the comptroller in writing within 15  days of the date when an authorized employee is subject to such action. (n) Examination of records. A licensed customs broker  must make all required records available for examination by the comptroller.  The comptroller will issue written notice of routine examination of  records at least 15 days prior to the date of examination. No advance  notice will be issued if the comptroller determines that notice could  jeopardize the proper enforcement of the tax laws and the comptroller's  rules. The examination will take place at the customs broker's principal  place of business unless the comptroller agrees to examine the records  at another location. (o) Retention of records. A licensed customs broker  must retain records for a period of at least two years from the date  of the document, the date of completion (if the required record is  a contract), or the date of final entry (if the required record is  a list or ledger). Copies of export certification forms must be retained  for at least two years after the date the customs broker or the customs  broker's authorized employee signs the form, regardless of the date  of export. For other documents with multiple dates, the two-year period  for retention begins on the latest date reflected on the document. (p) Export certification form and contents. The export  certification forms issued by a licensed customs broker must be substantially  in the form recommended by the comptroller. A separate form must be  completed for each seller. A maximum of six invoices from a single  seller may be listed on a single export certification form only if  all the listed items were exported at the same place, on the same  date, and at the same time. The required information must be completed  in English on the face of the form, in addition to any other language  in which the form is completed. The comptroller may immediately confiscate  from any person an export certification form that is incomplete on  its face, indecipherable, fraudulent, or otherwise in violation of  this section. An export certification form must, at a minimum, reflect  the following information: (1) the name and address of the purchaser of the property,  as shown on the invoice, receipt, or similar document, or the purchaser's  home address if the customs broker certified the export under subsection  (b)(3) of this section; (2) the name of the seller and the seller's location  from which the property was sold; (3) the name, address of the place of business which  the customs broker certified the export, and Texas Customs Broker  License number of the customs broker in whose name the export is being  certified; (4) the date (and time, if available) of sale, as shown  on the invoice, receipt, or similar document; "", '(5) the date, time and exact location where the property  was exported (e.g., the name of border crossing bridge or airport),  unless export was verified as set out in subsection (b)(3) of this  section;  (6) a description and quantity of the property; a list  of Store Keeping Unit (SKU), Harmonization Systems, Schedule B or  other product identification codes; or copies of invoices securely  attached to the form and signed and dated individually by the customs  broker or the customs broker\'s authorized employee; (7) the invoice numbers (if any) and total sales prices  and taxes of all property certified for export; (8) the original signature of the licensed customs  broker or the customs broker\'s authorized employee, together with  a certification that the customs broker or authorized employee inspected  the property and the original receipt for the property and that the  property has been exported or will be exported under the verification  requirements of subsection (b)(3) of this section; (9) the name of the person who signed the form, typed  or legibly printed near the signature; (10) a valid export certification stamp whose expiration  date falls within the same calendar quarter as the certification date  (regardless of the date of sale); (11) a sequential export certification form number  assigned by the licensed customs broker; (12) the purchaser\'s original signature and date; and (13) the certification identification number assigned  by the comptroller. (q) License denial, suspension, and revocation. The  comptroller may deny, suspend, or revoke a Texas Customs Broker License  for cause. (1) Grounds for denying a person\'s application for  a Texas Customs Broker License include, but are not limited to: (A) ineligibility for a license under subsection (c)  of this section, including filing incomplete, false, or misleading  information with the license application; (B) disqualification for a license due to prior denial,  United States Customs and Border Protection suspension, or revocation,  as provided in this subsection; (C) forfeiture of an entity\'s right to transact business  or certificate of formation/registration, if the applicant is a taxable  entity; (D) failure to pay annual license fee; or (E) failure to post bond or security as required by  the comptroller. (2) A person whose application for a Texas Customs  Broker License has been denied may resubmit the application not sooner  than 90 days after the date on which the comptroller\'s decision to  deny the application becomes final. However, the comptroller may authorize  reapplication at an earlier date if the comptroller determines it  is warranted under the circumstances. (3) Acts or omissions of a licensed customs broker,  authorized employee, verification contractor, an officer or director,  a general partner, or member (as applicable) that constitute cause  for suspension or revocation of a license under this section include,  but are not limited to: (A) cancellation, suspension, or revocation by the  United States Customs and Border Protection of the customs broker\'s  license to act as a customs broker or cancellation of that license  by the customs broker; (B) violation of any provision of the Tax Code or the  comptroller\'s rules; (C) delivering to any person a signed and/or stamped  export certification form if all or a portion of the property described  thereon was not actually exported at the time and place and on the  date reflected on the certification form, or not properly verified  as property that will be exported as required in subsection (b)(3)  of this section; (D) delivering to any person a signed and/or stamped  export certification form based solely on: (i) foreign import documents, bills of lading, freight  forwarder\'s receipts, or other documents that constitute valid proof  of export in and of themselves under §3.323 of this title; or (ii) proof of foreign citizenship; (E) transferring an export certification stamp to a  person other than the licensed customs broker or the customs broker\'s  authorized employee, except if, at the time of transfer, the stamp  is affixed to an export certification form issued in compliance with  this section; (F) delivering to any person an export certification  form with knowledge that the recipient intends to use the form to  evade tax that is legally due or to assist another person in the evasion  of tax that is legally due; (G) soliciting, advertising, or promoting the unlawful  evasion of tax through use of export certification forms; (H) knowingly making a false verbal or written statement  to the comptroller; (I) fully or partially preparing export certification  forms at a location for which no Texas Customs Broker License has  been issued; (J) transferring signed and/or stamped export certification  forms that are otherwise blank or incomplete at the time of transfer  to a person other than the licensed customs broker or the customs  broker\'s authorized employee in the ordinary course of business; (K) failing to exercise responsible supervision and  control over the conduct of export certification business, including  inadequate supervision of authorized employees and verification contractors; (L) failing to keep current in a correct, orderly,  and itemized manner the records required under this section, failing  to timely provide the comptroller with information required to be  provided, or failing to account for all export certification stamps  received from the comptroller; (M) refusing the comptroller access to, concealing,  removing, or destroying without the comptroller\'s prior written consent,  the whole or any part of a record required to be kept under this section,  or refusing to cooperate with the comptroller\'s investigation; (N) attempting to unduly influence the comptroller  by the use of a threat, false accusation, duress, or the offer of  any special inducement or promise of advantage, or by bestowing any  gift, favor, or other thing of value; (O) withholding information from or knowingly imparting  false information to a client; (P) failing to timely return to the comptroller unused,  expired export certification stamps as required by this section, absent  a showing and timely report to the comptroller of loss by theft or  accident; (Q) selling or buying export certification forms and/or  export certification stamps except as consistent with this section; (R) seeking and/or obtaining under false pretenses  a tax refund from a seller, including giving a false refund assignment  to the seller or otherwise representing that the customs broker has  the authority to obtain a refund of tax paid by another person if  the customs broker does not have such authority; (S) failing promptly to notify the seller, in writing,  that an export certification form relating to that seller is for any  reason incomplete, misleading, void, or otherwise invalid; (T) failing to file quarterly customs broker report; (U) failing to use the website for preparing documentation  while the website is available, or, if the website becomes unavailable  and the comptroller provides prior authorization, failing to promptly  enter documentation using the website no later than 48 hours after  website becomes available or disabling or interfering with the proper  functioning of the website in any manner; (V) failing to pay tax, penalties, or interest that  become due or are imposed by the comptroller under the provisions  of the Tax Code or this section; (W) failing to request a purchaser identification number;  or (X) failing to properly document each item to be exported  on purchaser\'s original receipt by circling, and writing or stating  ""exported"" next to each item, or failing to write or state on each  original receipt the date and time the property was verified for export  together with the full printed name of the person making the verification. (4) After notice and hearing, the comptroller may suspend  a license for no fewer than 60 days and no more than 120 days if the  customs broker\'s license has not been previously suspended or revoked,  for no fewer than 120 days and no more than 180 days if the customs  broker\'s license has been previously suspended or revoked, or concurrently  and for the same length of time as a suspension by the United States  Customs and Border Protection of the customs broker\'s license to act  as a customs broker. The suspension becomes effective on the date  the comptroller\'s decision to suspend the license becomes final. Suspension  of a license applies to all locations of the customs broker. (5) After notice and hearing, the comptroller may revoke  a customs broker\'s license indefinitely if the customs broker\'s license  has been suspended at least twice previously or has been previously  revoked, or if the customs broker\'s license to act as a customs broker  has been revoked by the United States Customs and Border Protection.  The revocation becomes effective on the date the comptroller\'s decision  to revoke the license becomes final. Revocation of a license applies  to all locations of the customs broker. (6) A Texas Customs Broker License that has been revoked  must be returned to the comptroller within 15 days of the effective  date of revocation. A Texas Customs Broker License that has been suspended  is reinstated automatically upon the expiration of the period of suspension,  unless the licensee notifies the comptroller in writing that the license  should not be reinstated. Not sooner than one year after the effective  date of revocation, a person whose Texas Customs Broker License has  been revoked may apply to the comptroller for reinstatement. The comptroller  may reinstate the license if the person otherwise qualifies for a  license as provided in this section and the comptroller is satisfied  that the person has a good faith intent to comply with the tax laws  and the comptroller\'s rules. (7) For procedures relating to license denial, suspension,  and revocation, see §3.361 of this title (relating to Practice  and Procedure for Texas Customs Broker\'s License Denial, Suspension,  and Revocation). (8) The comptroller may require a customs broker to  pay the comptroller the amount of any tax refunded if the customs  broker does not comply with the Tax Code or this section. In addition  to the amount of the refunded tax, the comptroller may require the  customs broker pay a penalty of not less than $500 dollars nor more  than $5,000. The comptroller may deduct any penalties to be paid by  a customs broker from the customs broker\'s posted bond. (9) A proceeding by the comptroller to require a customs  broker to pay an amount under paragraph (8) of this subsection is  a contested case in the same manner as a proceeding to suspend or  revoke a customs broker\'s license under Tax Code, §151.157(f). (r) Form of export certification. An export certification  form must be substantially in the form of a Licensed Customs Broker  Export Certification. Copies of the form may be obtained from the  Comptroller of Public Accounts, Tax Policy Division, or be requested  by calling 1-800-252-5555."
74|§3.361|Practice and Procedure for Texas Customs Broker's License Denial, Suspension, and Revocation|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=361|(a) Applicability of rules of practice and procedure. The following rules of practice and procedure contained in Part I, Chapter 1, Subchapter A of this title (relating to Practice and Procedure) shall apply to hearings involving the denial, revocation, or suspension of a Texas Customs Broker's License: §§1.1, 1.2, 1.4, 1.8, 1.19, 1.21-1.27, 1.29-1.36, 1.38, 1.41, and 1.42 of this title (relating to Practice and Procedure). For information about licensing procedures and requirements, see §3.360 of this title (relating to Customs Brokers). (b) Special rules governing hearings on the denial, revocation, or suspension of a Texas Customs Broker's License. (1) Contested cases. A contested case is a proceeding in which the legal rights, duties, or privileges of an applicant or licensee are to be determined by the agency after an opportunity for adjudicative hearing. It includes a request for relief from actions initiated by the agency to deny, suspend, or revoke a Texas Customs Broker's License. Contested cases are within the jurisdiction of the administrative law judges. (2) Initiation of an oral hearing. (A) If the comptroller determines that an applicant is not eligible for a Texas Customs Broker's License, the applicant will be notified, in writing, by personal service, or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, that the application has been denied. The notice will state the reasons for the denial. The applicant may, within 15 days of the date of the notice of denial, make a written request for an oral hearing to contest the denial. If the applicant does not request a hearing within 15 days of the date of the notice of denial, the hearing is waived and a final decision will be issued. (B) If the comptroller determines that a Texas Customs Broker's License should be suspended or revoked, the comptroller will notify the licensee, in writing, by personal service or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, that the license will be suspended or revoked and will state the reasons for the action. The licensee may, within 15 days of the date of the notice of suspension or revocation, make a written request for an oral hearing to contest the action. If the licensee does not request a hearing within 15 days of the date of the notice of suspension or revocation, the hearing is waived and a final decision will be issued. (3) Content of request for an oral hearing. (A) A request for an oral hearing must contain the reasons the applicant or licensee disagrees with the action of the agency. The applicant or licensee must list and number the factual and legal grounds why the action of the agency should be reversed. Legal authority must be cited if the applicant or licensee disagrees with the agency's interpretation of the law. (B) Evidence regarding issues raised in the request for hearing may be obtained through: (i) a preliminary conference; and (ii) discovery. (C) Time limits on discovery or preliminary conferences will be set by the assigned administrative law judge if the parties cannot reach agreement. Evidence that a licensee or applicant will rely upon must be submitted to the assigned administrative law judge and hearings attorney at least ten days prior to the hearing date. (D) A request for hearing may be amended up to ten days prior to the time that the hearing date is set, and not later, unless by permission of the assigned administrative law judge, and unless all evidence upon which the applicant or licensee intends to rely and that was not previously filed is filed with the amended request for hearing. (4) Extensions of time. (A) A motion for extension of the due date for submitting a request for hearing on the denial of an application or on the proposed suspension or revocation of a license may be granted in case of emergency or extraordinary circumstances. A motion for extension will not be routinely granted and each request will be closely scrutinized to ensure that the applicant or licensee has made every effort to comply with the original deadline. A motion filed after the expiration of the original due date will not be considered. A motion must be directed to the chief administrative law judge or his designee, who will grant or deny the motion. (B) A motion for an extension of any other deadline will not be granted unless good cause is established and the need for the extension is not due to the moving party's neglect, indifference, or lack of diligence. A motion must be made in writing at least seven days prior to the deadline. In the event of an emergency, a motion may be accepted if it is postmarked, sent by facsimile transmission, or deposited with a private mail or courier service, postage or delivery charges paid, not later than the date of the original deadline. (5) Motion to dismiss; request for extended hearing. (A) The agency may move to dismiss the hearing on the ground that the request for hearing was not timely filed or failed to state a claim upon which relief could be granted as required by paragraph (3) of this subsection. (B) An applicant or licensee who believes it will require more than two hours for a hearing must file a written request for an extended hearing at the time the request for hearing is filed, and state the reasons why more time will be required; however, any party may later request an extended hearing for good cause shown. (6) Notice of setting. Upon receipt of a timely and sufficient request for hearing, the assigned administrative law judge will send a notice to the parties giving: (A) the date, time, place, and nature of the oral hearing; (B) the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held; (C) a reference to the particular statutes and rules involved; and (D) upon request, briefing and evidentiary prefiling dates, and other appropriate orders. (7) Administrative law judge to hear case. Hearings will be conducted by an assigned administrative law judge who has authority to examine witnesses, to rule on motions, and to rule upon the admissibility of evidence. The administrative law judge has the authority to continue or recess any hearing, to control the record, and to propose decisions to the comptroller. If for any reason the assigned administrative law judge cannot continue on a contested case, another administrative law judge will become familiar with the record and perform any functions remaining to be performed without the necessity of repeating any previous proceedings in the case. (8) Filing of documents. All documents submitted after the notice of setting has been issued must be filed with the assigned administrative law judge with a copy to each party. In addition to any other order by the assigned administrative law judge, the time limit for filing documents with the administrative law judge and an opposing party shall be not later than ten days prior to the hearing. (9) Continuances (postponement of hearing). A motion for continuance of a contested case set for oral hearing must be in writing and filed with the assigned administrative law judge at least seven days prior to the date that the matter is to be heard. If an emergency occurs less than seven days prior to the hearing date, a motion for continuance may be filed. The motion must show that there is good cause for the continuance and that the need is not caused by neglect, indifference, or lack of diligence. A copy of the motion must be served upon all other parties of record at the time of filing. (10) Comptroller's decision. The proposed decision of the assigned administrative law judge must be approved by the Comptroller of Public Accounts before it is given effect. The comptroller's decision will be sent to the applicant or licensee and any authorized representative. The decision is final 20 days from the date mailed, unless a motion for rehearing is filed at or before midnight of the 20th day. If the motion for rehearing is granted, the decision is vacated pending a subsequent decision upon rehearing. If the motion for rehearing is overruled, whether by order or operation of law, the decision is final on the date the motion is overruled. A final decision of the comptroller to deny, suspend, or revoke a Texas Customs Broker's License is subject to judicial review by trial de novo in the district courts of Travis County.  (11) Joint hearings. An applicant, licensee, or the agency may file a written motion to have two or more cases involving only that applicant or licensee joined for purposes of hearing; or the assigned administrative law judge, acting independently, may join two or more such cases. (12) Dismissal of case. (A) If a motion to dismiss is filed upon agreement between the applicant or licensee and the agency, or upon the applicant's or licensee's decision to abandon the case, a decision will be issued that conforms with such disposition. (B) The agency may move to dismiss a case based upon agreement reached between the applicant or licensee and the agency, for failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted as required by paragraph (3) of this subsection, or for want of prosecution. The motion must be served on the applicant or licensee and its authorized representative at its last address of record. If there is no reply from the applicant or licensee to the agency's motion to dismiss within 15 days, a decision will be issued denying the relief sought by the applicant or licensee. (C) All motions to dismiss that are based upon a representation that both parties have agreed to dismiss a contested case on the basis that all issues have been settled shall be in writing and signed by both parties or their authorized representatives. (13) Burden of proof. In all contested cases the agency has the burden of proving a prima facie case; the burden of proof then shifts to the applicant or licensee, with the standard of proof being by a preponderance of the evidence.
75|§3.362|Labor Relating to Increasing Capacity in a Production Unit in a Petrochemical Refinery or Chemical Plant|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=362|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Allied chemical product--A consumer or end-user product manufactured from basic or intermediate chemicals. Examples include drugs, soaps, detergents, paints and agricultural chemical formulations. (2) Basic or intermediate chemical--Basic chemicals are the initial building blocks or raw materials that are processed and combined to manufacture intermediate chemicals. Intermediate chemicals are products that are manufactured from basic chemicals and other intermediate chemicals and are manufactured into finished chemical products. Examples of basic chemicals include alkalies, chlorine, nitrogen, sulfur, benzene, ethylene, propylene methane, and sodium carbonate. Examples of intermediate chemicals include synthetic fibers, polymers, resins, elastomers, dyes, and pigments.  (3) Chemical plant-- (A) A facility that in a single continuous operation or using a batch processing method manufactures a basic or an intermediate chemical. (B) A chemical plant may be either a single facility existing by itself or a facility within a chemical plant complex consisting of a number of separate chemical plants each of which produces a single basic or intermediate chemical product. A chemical plant complex may include any combination of distinct facilities that manufacture basic chemicals, intermediate chemicals, or allied chemical products. In a chemical plant complex, each facility is considered individually to determine whether it qualifies as a chemical plant. (C) The term does not include: (i) a facility that manufactures ""allied chemical products""; or (ii) a facility, other than one that produces a basic or an intermediate chemical, that generates any chemical as a waste product or a by-product. (4) Crude oil--A mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in liquid phase in underground reservoirs and remains liquid at atmospheric pressure after passing through surface-separating facilities. The term includes liquid condensate and liquid hydrocarbons produced from tar sands, gilsonite, and oil shale. Drip gases are also included, but topped crude oil (residual oil) and other unfinished oils are excluded. Liquids produced at natural gas processing plants and mixed with crude oil are likewise excluded where identifiable. (5) Increased capacity-- (A) Increasing the capability of the manufacturing or processing production unit to produce: (i) more of the same product measured by units per hour or units per year; or (ii) a new product. (B) Increasing a unit's capability to produce more of an existing product and less of another existing product is not increasing the unit's capacity unless the overall production unit capability is increased. For example, if a production unit that produces 50 units of product X and 50 units of product Y is modified so that it produces 60 units of product X and 40 units of product Y, the production unit's capacity has not been increased. (6) Manufacturing or processing production unit--A group of manufacturing and processing machines and ancillary equipment that together are necessary to create or produce a physical or chemical change beginning with the first processing of the raw material and ending with a finished product. Examples of such equipment include reactors, distillation columns, catalytic crackers, fractionators, or other primary process equipment, and ancillary equipment such as heat exchangers, cooling towers, computer control units, piping, valves, and actuators. Another example of ancillary equipment is quality control equipment that is used during the manufacturing process, but not equipment used to test products before the process begins or after it is completed. The production unit does not include maintenance equipment; research and development laboratory equipment; waste handling or treatment equipment; equipment for the storage of feedstock, catalysts, or finished products; loading and unloading equipment; or any other equipment that is not used in the actual processing or manufacturing operation. (7) New product--A product that has different product properties and a different commercial application than the product previously manufactured or processed by that production unit. Examples of new products include chlorine produced from sodium chloride; styrene from benzene; aqueous hydrogen chloride (HCl) from anhydrous HCl; and soft polyethylene from hard polyethylene if the soft polyethylene is used to manufacture different end products than the hard polyethylene. Producing gasoline with a 91-octane rating instead of an 89-octane rating for use in motor vehicle engines is not producing a new product. Changes caused by straining or purifying an existing product or cosmetic changes such as adding or removing color or odor to or from an existing product will not create a new product. For example, the manufacture of a different grade of the same product, such as technical sulfuric acid which is colored and contains impurities and anhydrous 100% sulfuric acid which is colorless and odorless, does not qualify one as a new or different product from the other. (8) Petrochemical refinery--A facility that manufactures finished petroleum products from crude oil, unfinished oils, natural gas liquids, other hydrocarbons, and oxygenates. Products of these refineries include gasoline, diesel, kerosene, distillate fuel oils, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), residual fuel oils, lubricants, and other products refined through alkylation, coking, cracking, dewaxing, desulphurization, distillation, hydrotreating, isomerization, polymerization, or other chemical processes. These facilities also produce petrochemical feedstock for use by chemical plants. The term does not include facilities at an oil or gas lease site that remove water or other impurities and merely make the product more marketable. (b) Tax responsibilities of persons who make improvements to a manufacturing or processing production unit of a petrochemical refinery or chemical plant. (1) Persons who repair, remodel, restore, or modify a manufacturing or processing production unit of a petrochemical refinery or chemical plant to increase the capacity in the production unit are not performing a taxable real property repair and remodeling service. Such persons are governed by the provisions of §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors). (A) Contractors performing lump-sum contracts as defined in §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors) are consumers of all materials, consumable items, and equipment used or incorporated into a customer's property. As a consumer, a contractor must pay tax to on all such all materials, consumable items, and equipment. See §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors) for more information on lump-sum contracts. Contractors performing lump-sum contracts for persons having direct payment permits may not accept a direct payment exemption certificate from those persons. When performing lump-sum contracts for a direct payment permit holder, the contractor must pay sales tax to the supplier or accrue and remit sales tax on incorporated materials removed from a tax-free inventory for incorporation into the direct payment permit holder's realty. Direct payment permit holders cannot authorize the contractor or any other person to purchase any taxable item using their permit. See §3.288 of this title (relating to Direct Payment Procedures and Qualifications). (B) Contractors performing separated contracts as defined in §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors) are considered retailers of all materials physically incorporated into the realty being improved. As a retailer, a contractor must collect tax from the customer based upon the agreed contract price of the incorporated materials. See §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors) for more information on separated contracts. Contractors performing separated contracts for persons having direct payment permits may accept a direct payment exemption certificate from those persons in lieu of tax for all tangible personal property incorporated into customer's realty. A direct payment exemption certificate may not be accepted for tax liability incurred by the contractor on machinery or equipment rented or leased by the contractor and used in the performance of the contract. See §3.288 of this title (relating to Direct Payment Procedures and Qualifications). (2) Repairs, remodeling, restorations, or modifications other than to the processing production unit or that do not increase the capacity of the processing production unit are governed by the provisions of §3.357 of this title (relating to Labor Relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling Restoration, Maintenance, New Construction, and Residential Property). (3) Persons who perform repair, remodeling, maintenance, or restoration services on tangible personal property are governed by the provisions of §3.292 of this title (relating to Repair, Remodeling, Maintenance, and Restoration of Tangible Personal Property). These services may be exempt under the Tax Code, §151.3111, that exempts services performed on tangible personal property if the property is exempt because of the nature of the property, its use, or a combination of its nature and its use. (4) Where increased capacity improvements and taxable services are sold or purchased for a single charge and the portion relating to taxable services represents more than 5.0% of the total charge, the total charge is presumed to be taxable. The presumption may be overcome by the service provider at the time the transaction occurs by separately stating to the customer a reasonable charge for the taxable services. However, if the charge for the taxable portion of the services is not separately stated at the time of the transaction, the service provider or the purchaser may later establish for the comptroller, through documentary evidence, the percentage of the total charge that relates to nontaxable unrelated services. Examples of acceptable documentation include written contracts detailing the scope of work, bid sheets, tally sheets, schedules of values, and blueprints. (5) When both increased capacity improvements and taxable services are being performed under the same contract, the parties to the contract should separately identify taxable from nontaxable labor in a contract and the charges applicable to each or the entire contract will be presumed to be for taxable services. Documentation which clearly defines the work being performed should be retained by both parties to show that had the increased capacity improvements and taxable services been done independently of each other, the cost of each would be reasonably near the allocation of charges. Examples of acceptable documentation include written contracts which detail the scope of work, bid sheets, tally sheets, schedules of values, and blueprints. If there is not a written contract signed by both parties clearly showing agreement as to the taxable and nontaxable work being performed, the customer and the service provider must prepare, at the time of the transaction, a written certification verifying the allocation of charges for increased capacity improvements and taxable services. The comptroller may recalculate the charges if the allocation appears unreasonable and either party may be held responsible for the additional tax due. (6) A service provider's customer must be able to substantiate by way of documentary evidence that repair, remodeling, restoration, or modification services performed on a production unit increase the unit's capacity as defined in subsection (a)(5) of this section. If the person performing the service does not have the certification set out in paragraph (5) of this subsection, the service provider must presume that the service is taxable and collect tax. If the service provider's customer has documentation to prove that the labor increases the capacity of a production unit, the customer may issue an exemption certificate in lieu of paying tax to the service provider. The certificate must state that the labor increases the production unit's capacity as defined in subsection (a)(5) of this section, and that the customer will be liable for any additional tax due in the event that it is determined that taxable services were performed. A service provider who accepts such a certificate should follow the guidelines set out in paragraph (1) of this subsection and §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors)."
76|§3.364|Services by Employees|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=364|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Affiliated group--Entities in which a controlling  interest is owned by a common owner or owners, either corporate or  noncorporate, or by one or more of the member entities.  (2) Client--Any person who enters into a professional  employer services agreement with a professional employer organization.  (3) Coemployer--A professional employer organization  or a client that is a party to a coemployment relationship.  (4) Coemployment relationship--A contractual relationship  between a client and a professional employer organization that involves  the sharing of employment responsibilities with or allocation of employment  responsibilities to covered employees in accordance with a professional  employer services agreement and the provisions of Labor Code, Chapter  91.  (5) Covered employee--An individual having a coemployment  relationship with a professional employer organization and a client.  The term does not include an independent contractor, a temporary common  worker as defined by Labor Code, Chapter 92, or an employee providing  temporary help.  (6) Controlling interest--  (A) for a corporation, either more than 50%, owned  directly or indirectly, of the total combined voting power of all  classes of stock of the corporation, or more than 50%, owned directly  or indirectly, of the beneficial ownership interest in the voting  stock of the corporation;  (B) for a partnership, association, trust, or other  entity other than a limited liability company, more than 50%, owned  directly or indirectly, of the capital, profits, or beneficial interest  in the partnership, association, trust, or other entity; and (C) for a limited liability company, either more than  50%, owned directly or indirectly, of the total membership interest  of the limited liability company or more than 50%, owned directly  or indirectly, of the beneficial ownership interest in the membership  interest of the limited liability company. (7) Host employer--The employer who owns, manages,  or controls the property or worksite where a temporary employee performs  a service.  (8) Independent contractor--A person who contracts  to perform work or provide a service for the benefit of another and  who: (A) is paid by the job, not by the hour or some other  time measured basis; (B) is free to hire as many helpers as the person desires  and to determine what each helper will be paid; (C) is free to work for other customers, or to send  helpers to work for other customers, while under contract to the hiring  customer; and (D) is in control of the details of the work and the  right to terminate the employment of its employees. (9) Professional employer organization--A business  entity that offers professional employer services and is licensed  under Labor Code, Chapter 91.  (10) Professional employer services--Services provided  to a client by a professional employer organization through a coemployment  relationship when a majority of the employees providing services to  the client, or to a division or work unit of the client, are covered  employees. The term does not include:  (A) temporary employees;  (B) the provision of services by an independent contractor; (C) the provision of services that otherwise meet the  definition of ""professional employer services"" by one person solely  to other persons who are related to the service provider by common  ownership; or  (D) services provided by a temporary common worker  employer as defined by Labor Code, Chapter 92.  (11) Temporary employee--An employee of a temporary  employment service.  (12) Temporary employment service--A person, corporation,  organization, or other legal entity that employs individuals for the  purpose of assigning those individuals to a host employer to support  or supplement the host employer's workforce in a special work situation,  including:  (A) an employee absence;  (B) a temporary skill shortage;  (C) a seasonal workload; or  (D) a special assignment or project.  (b) Tax responsibilities of professional employer organizations. (1) Sales tax is not due on professional employer services  if all of the following conditions are met:  (A) at least 75% of the covered employees providing  services under the professional employer services agreement were previously  employees of the client for a period of at least three months immediately  prior to commencement of the professional employer services agreement;  (B) none of the covered employees were employed previously: (i) by the company providing professional employer  services under the agreement unless the previous employment was through  a coemployment relationship; or  (ii) by a person that previously provided or currently  provides taxable services to the client; and  (C) a coemployment relationship exists between the  client and the professional employer organization as to the covered  employees.  (2) The following are exceptions to paragraph (1) of  this subsection.  (A) A professional employer services agreement must  comply only with paragraph (1)(B) and (C) of this subsection when  the client has been in operation for less than a year; provided that  a client that has been in existence less than a year solely due to  a change in legal entity, merger, or corporate reorganization must  meet all three conditions. In the latter situation, the combined experience  of all entities involved in such legal change, merger, or corporate  reorganization will be considered when applying the tests set forth  in paragraph (1) of this subsection.  (B) When a professional employer organization enters  into an agreement with a client that previously was in a coemployment  relationship with another professional employer organization immediately  prior to the effective date of such new agreement, the employees that  were subject to the coemployment relationship will be considered employees  of the client in meeting the requirement in paragraph (1)(A) of this  subsection.  (C) A professional employer services agreement that  has met the qualifications in paragraph (1) of this subsection will  not have to re-qualify if a covered employee is fired or resigns and  is replaced. However, an agreement must re-qualify under paragraph  (1) if, within six months after it is entered into, all of the covered  employees or an identifiable segment of the covered employees are  replaced by:  (i) employees previously employed by the professional  employer organization unless the previous employment was through a  coemployment relationship with another client; or  (ii) employees of an entity that previously provided  or currently provides taxable services to the client.  (D) If the scope of an existing professional employer  services agreement is expanded to increase the volume of services  of the type already provided by the professional employer organization  by adding employees to perform the same work functions of employees  already under the agreement (for example, another shift is added),  the amended agreement must meet the qualifications in paragraph (1)(B)(i)  and (C) of this subsection.  (E) If the scope of an existing professional employer  services agreement is expanded to include services not previously  provided by the professional employer organization by adding employees  to perform functions that are not currently performed by employees  under the agreement (for example, employees are added to perform debt  collection services for a client who previously had not performed  those services in house), the amended agreement must meet the qualifications  in paragraph (1)(B) and (C) of this subsection.  (3) The client and the professional employer organization  must sign a written certification that the professional employer services  agreement or amendments to the agreement meet the requirements and  conditions set out in this section, and both parties must retain a  copy of the certification in their files.  (4) If an agreement does not meet the conditions for  exemption set out in subsection (b) of this section, taxable services  as defined in Tax Code, §151.0101, performed under the agreement  are subject to sales tax, unless purchased for resale as provided  in §3.285 of this title (relating to Resale Certificates; Sales  for Resale). (5) When both nontaxable professional employer services  and taxable services are being performed under the same agreement,  the parties to the agreement should separately identify the taxable  from nontaxable services in the agreement and the charges applicable  to each. Failure to separate the charges will result in the entire  agreement being presumed to be for taxable services. Documentation  that clearly defines the work being performed should be retained by  both parties to show that had the nontaxable professional employer  services and taxable services been performed independently of each  other, the cost of each would be reasonably near the allocation of  charges. Examples of acceptable documentation include written agreements,  which detail the scope of work, bid sheets, tally sheets, payroll  records, and job descriptions. If there is not a written agreement  signed by both parties clearly showing agreement as to the taxable  and nontaxable work being performed, the customer and the service  provider may prepare a written certification verifying the allocation  of nontaxable professional employer services and taxable services.  All services performed will be presumed to be taxable if the parties  fail to provide the written certification. The comptroller may recalculate  the charges if the allocation appears unreasonable and either party  may be held responsible for the additional tax due.  (c) Independent contractor. Professional employer services  do not include services performed by an independent contractor regardless  of the status of the contractor as a licensed professional employer  organization.  (d) Tax responsibilities of temporary employment services. (1) Taxable services performed for a host employer  by temporary employees are exempt from sales tax when the following  conditions are met:  (A) the service is normally performed by the host employer's  own employees;  (B) the host employer is using the temporary employees  to supplement its own work force; (C) the host employer provides the temporary employees  all supplies and equipment necessary to perform the services, other  than personal protective equipment provided by the temporary employment  service pursuant to a federal law or regulation; and (D) the host employer does not rent, lease, purchase,  or otherwise acquire for use any of the supplies and equipment described  in paragraph (1)(C) of this subsection, other than the personal protective  equipment described by that subsection, from the temporary employment  service or an entity that is a member of an affiliated group of which  the temporary employment service is also a member. (E) the host employer has the sole right to supervise,  direct, and control the work performed by the temporary employee as  necessary to conduct the host employer's business or to comply with  any licensing, statutory, or regulatory requirement applicable to  the host.  (2) A temporary employment service may accept a properly  completed blanket exemption certificate from the host employer. Refer  to §3.287 of this title (relating to Exemption Certificates). (e) Services provided for an employer by an employee.  A service performed by an employee for the employee's employer in  the regular course of business, within the scope of the employee's  duties, and for which the employee is paid regular wages or salary,  is exempt from sales and use tax. An employee is not required to provide  an employer with an exemption certificate. The employment tax records  that an employer maintains for the Internal Revenue Service are sufficient  documentation of exemption."
77|§3.365|Sales Tax Holiday--Clothing, Shoes and School Supplies|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=365|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Clothing or footwear--An article of apparel that  the article manufacturer designs for wear on or about the human body.  Except as provided under paragraph (3) of this subsection, for the  purposes of this section, the term does not include accessories, such  as jewelry, handbags, purses, briefcases, luggage, wallets, watches,  and similar items that are carried on or about the human body, without  regard to whether the item is worn on the body in a manner that is  characteristic of clothing. (2) Eligible item--For the purposes of this section,  an article of clothing or footwear, a school backpack, or school supplies  that are eligible for the sales tax exemption established under Tax  Code, §151.326 and §151.327. (3) School backpack--A pack with straps that one wears  on the back, including a backpack with wheels (provided it may also  be worn on the back like a traditional backpack) or a messenger bag,  that is purchased for use by a student in a public or private elementary  or secondary school. The term does not include an item that is commonly  considered luggage, a briefcase, an athletic bag, a duffle bag, a  gym bag, a computer bag, or a framed backpack. (4) School supply--The term ""school supply"" has the  meaning assigned by the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement adopted  November 12, 2002, including all amendments made to the Agreement  on or before December 14, 2006. The items set out in the following  all-inclusive list are school supplies for the purpose of this exemption:  binders, book bags, calculators, cellophane tape, blackboard chalk,  compasses, composition books, crayons, erasers, expandable folders,  pocket folders, plastic folders, manila folders, glue, paste, paste  sticks, highlighters, index cards, index card boxes, legal pads, lunch  boxes, markers, notebooks, loose leaf ruled notebook paper, copy paper,  graph paper, tracing paper, manila paper, colored paper, poster board,  construction paper, pencil boxes and other school supply boxes, pencil  sharpeners, pencils, pens, protractors, rulers, scissors, and writing  tablets. School supply items not on this list, for example, computers  and textbooks, are not eligible for the exemption. (b) Exempt sales. (1) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of an eligible  item if: (A) the sales price of the eligible item is less than  $100; and (B) the sale takes place during the period that begins  at 12:01 a.m. on the Friday before the fifteenth day preceding the  fourth Monday in August, and ends at 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on the  following Sunday. (i) Using 2013 as an example, the fourth Monday in  August falls on August 26. The fifteenth day preceding August 26 is  Sunday, August 11th. The Friday before August 11 is August 9. The  sales tax holiday will begin at 12:01 a.m. on Friday, August 9 and  end at 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on Sunday, August 11. (ii) In 2014, the sales tax holiday will begin at 12:01  a.m. on Friday, August 8 and end at 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on Sunday,  August 10. (iii) In 2015, the sales tax holiday will begin at  12:01 a.m. on Friday, August 7 and end at 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on  Sunday, August 9. (2) The exemption applies to each eligible item that  sells for less than $100, regardless of how many items are sold on  the same invoice to a customer. For example, if a customer purchases  two shirts for $80 each, then both items qualify for the exemption,  even though the customer\'s total purchase price ($160) exceeds $99.99. (3) The exemption does not apply to the first $99.99  of an otherwise eligible item that sells for more than $99.99. For  example, if a customer purchases a pair of pants that costs $110,  then sales tax is due on the entire $110. (c) Taxable sales. The exemption under this section  does not apply to: (1) any special clothing or footwear that the manufacturer  primarily designed for athletic activity or protective use and that  is not normally worn except when used for the athletic activity or  protective use for which the manufacturer designed the article. For  example, golf cleats and football pads are primarily designed for  athletic activity or protective use and are not normally worn except  when used for those purposes; therefore, they do not qualify for the  exemption. However, tennis shoes, jogging suits, and swimsuits are  commonly worn for purposes other than athletic activity and thus qualify  for the exemption; (2) accessories, such as jewelry, handbags, purses,  briefcases, luggage, athletic bags, duffle bags, gym bags, computer  bags, framed backpacks, umbrellas, wallets, watches, and similar items  that are carried on or about the human body, without regard to whether  the item is worn on the body in a manner that is characteristic of  clothing; (3) school supplies and backpacks that are not purchased  for use by elementary or secondary school students; (4) school supplies not listed in subsection (a)(4)  of this section; (5) the rental of clothing or footwear. For example,  the exemption under this section does not apply to the rental of formal  wear, costumes, uniforms, diapers, or bowling shoes; (6) taxable services that are performed on clothing  or footwear, such as repair, remodeling, alterations, or maintenance  services, and cleaning or laundry services. For example, a customer  purchases a pair of pants for $90 and pays $15 to have the pants cuffed,  then the $90 charge for the pants is exempt, but tax is due on the  $15 alterations charge; and (7) purchases of items that are used to make or repair  eligible items, including fabric, thread, yarn, buttons, snaps, hooks,  and zippers. (d) Articles normally sold as a unit. Articles that  are normally sold as a unit must continue to be sold in that manner;  they cannot be priced separately and sold as individual items in order  to obtain the exemption. For example, if a pair of shoes sells for  $150, then the pair cannot be split in order to sell each shoe for  $75 to qualify for the exemption. If a suit is normally priced at  $225 on a single price tag, the suit cannot be split into separate  articles so that any of the components may be sold for less than $100  in order to qualify for the exemption. However, components that are  normally priced as separate articles may continue to be sold as separate  articles and qualify for the exemption if the price of an article  is less than $100. (e) Sales of pre-packaged combinations containing both  exempt and taxable items. (1) When an eligible item is sold together with taxable  merchandise in a pre-packaged combination or single unit and the predominant  cost of the set or unit is taxable, then the full price is subject  to sales tax unless the price of the eligible item is separately stated.  For example, if a boxed gift set that consists of a French-cuff dress  shirt, cufflinks, and a tie tack is sold for a single price of $95,  the full price of the boxed gift set is taxable if the cufflinks and  tie tack are the predominant cost and the price of the shirt and tie  are not separately stated. (2) When an eligible item is sold in a pre-packaged  combination that also contains taxable merchandise as a free gift  and no additional charge is made for the gift, the eligible item may  qualify for the exemption under this section. For example, a boxed  set may contain a tie and a free tie tack. If the price of the set  is the same as the price of the tie sold separately, the item that  is being sold is the tie, which is exempt from tax if the tie is sold  for less than $100 during the exemption period. Note: When a retailer  gives an item away free of charge, the retailer owes sales or use  tax on the purchase price that the retailer paid for the item. (f) Discounts and coupons. (1) A retailer may offer discounts to reduce the sales  price of an item. If the discount reduces the sales price of an item  to $99.99 or less, the item may qualify for the exemption under this  section. For example, a customer buys a $150 dress and a $100 blouse  from a retailer who offers a 10% discount. After application of the  10% discount, the final sales price of the dress is $135, and the  blouse is $90. The dress is taxable (its price is over $99.99), and  the blouse is exempt (its price is less than $100.00). (2) When retailers accept coupons as a part of the  sales price of any taxable item, the value of the coupon is excludable  from the tax as a cash discount, regardless of whether the retailer  is reimbursed for the amount that the coupon represents. Therefore,  a coupon can be used to reduce the sales price of an item to $99.99  or less in order to qualify for the exemption under this section.  For example, if a customer purchases a pair of shoes priced at $110  with a coupon worth $20, the final sales price of the shoes is $90,  and the shoes qualify for the exemption. (g) Buy one, get one free or for a reduced price. The  total price of items that are advertised as ""buy one, get one free,""  or ""buy one, get one for a reduced price,"" cannot be averaged in order  for both items to qualify for the exemption under this section. The  following examples illustrate how such sales should be handled. (1) A retailer advertises pants as ""buy one, get one  free."" The first pair of pants is priced at $120; the second pair  of pants is free. Tax is due on $120. Having advertised that the second  pair is free, the store cannot register the charge for each pair of  pants at $60 in order for the items to qualify for the exemption.  However, if the retailer advertises and sells the pants for 50% off,  and sells each pair of $120 pants for $60, each pair of pants qualifies  for the exemption. Note: When a retailer gives an item away free of  charge, the retailer owes sales or use tax on the purchase price that  the retailer paid for the item. (2) A retailer advertises shoes as ""buy one pair at  the regular price, get a second pair for half price."" The first pair  of shoes is sold for $100; the second pair is sold for $50 (half price).  Tax is due on the $100 shoes, but not on the $50 shoes. Having advertised  that the second pair is half price, the store cannot ring up each  pair of shoes for $75 in order for the items to qualify for the exemption  under this section. However, if the retailer advertises the shoes  for 25% off, and thereby sells each pair of $100 shoes for $75, then  each pair of shoes qualifies for the exemption. (h) Rebates. Rebates occur after the sale and do not  affect the sales price of an item purchased. For example, a customer  purchases a sweater for $110 and receives a $12 rebate from the manufacturer.  The retailer must collect tax on the $110 sales price of the sweater. (i) Layaway sales. A layaway sale is a transaction  in which merchandise is set aside for future delivery to a customer  who makes a deposit, agrees to pay the balance of the purchase price  over a period of time, and, at the end of the payment period, receives  the merchandise. An order is accepted for layaway by the retailer  when the retailer removes the goods from normal inventory or clearly  identifies the items as sold to the customer. The sale of an eligible  item under a layaway plan qualifies for exemption when either: (1) final payment on a layaway order is made by, and  the merchandise is given to, the customer during the exemption period;  or (2) the customer selects the eligible item and the  retailer accepts the order for the item during the exemption period,  for immediate delivery upon full payment, even if delivery is made  after the exemption period. (j) Rain checks. Eligible items that customers purchase  during the exemption period with use of a rain check will qualify  for the exemption regardless of when the rain check was issued. However,  issuance of a rain check during the exemption period will not qualify  an eligible item for the exemption if the item is actually purchased  after the exemption period. (k) Exchanges. (1) If a customer purchases an eligible item during  the exemption period, but later exchanges the item for an item of  a different size, different color, or other feature, no additional  tax is due even if the exchange is made after the exemption period. (2) If a customer purchases an eligible item during  the exemption period, but after the exemption period has ended, the  customer returns the item and receives credit on the purchase of a  different item, the appropriate sales tax is due on the sale of the  newly purchased item. (3) If a customer purchases an eligible item before  the exemption period, but during the exemption period the customer  returns the item and receives credit on the purchase of a different  eligible item, no sales tax is due on the sale of the new item if  the new item is purchased during the exemption period. (4) Examples: (A) A customer purchases a $35 shirt during the exemption  period. After the exemption period, the customer exchanges the shirt  for the same shirt in a different size. Tax is not due on the $35  price of the shirt. (B) A customer purchases a $35 shirt during the exemption  period. After the exemption period, the customer exchanges the shirt  for a $35 jacket. Because the jacket was not purchased during the  exemption period, tax is due on the $35 price of the jacket. Cont\'d...', '(C) During the exemption period, a customer purchases  a $90 dress that qualifies for the exemption. Later, during the exemption  period, the customer exchanges the $90 dress for a $150 dress. Tax  is due on the $150 dress. The $90 credit from the returned item cannot  be used to reduce the sales price of the $150 item to $60 for exemption  purposes. (D) During the exemption period, a customer purchases  a $60 dress that qualifies for the exemption. Later, during the exemption  period, the customer exchanges the $60 dress for a $95 dress. Tax  is not due on the $95 dress because it was also purchased during the  exemption period and otherwise meets the qualifications for the exemption. (l) Returned merchandise. For a 30-day period after  the temporary exemption period, when a customer returns an item that  would qualify for the exemption, no credit for or refund of sales  tax shall be given unless the customer provides a receipt or invoice  that shows tax was paid, or the retailer has sufficient documentation  to show that tax was paid on the specific item. This 30-day period  is set solely for the purpose of designating a time period during  which the customer must provide documentation that shows that sales  tax was paid on returned merchandise. The 30-day period is not intended  to change a retailer\'s policy on the time period during which the  retailer will accept returns. (m) Mail, telephone, e-mail, Internet orders, and custom  orders. Under the Texas sales tax law, a sale of tangible personal  property occurs when a purchaser receives title to or possession of  the property for consideration. Therefore, an eligible item may qualify  for this exemption if: (1) the item is both delivered to and paid for by the  customer during the exemption period; or (2) the customer orders and pays for the item and the  retailer accepts the order during the exemption period for immediate  shipment, even if delivery is made after the exemption period. The  retailer accepts an order when the retailer has taken action to fill  the order for immediate shipment. Actions to fill an order include  placement of an ""in date"" stamp on a mail order, or assignment of  an ""order number"" to a telephone order. An order is for immediate  shipment when the customer does not request delayed shipment. An order  is for immediate shipment notwithstanding that the shipment may be  delayed because of a backlog of orders or because stock is currently  unavailable to, or on back order by, the company. (n) Shipping and handling charges. (1) Shipping and handling charges are included as part  of the sales price of an eligible item, regardless of whether the  charges are separately stated. Except as provided in paragraph (2)  of this subsection, if multiple items are shipped on a single invoice,  the shipping and handling charge must be proportionately allocated  to each item ordered, and separately identified on the invoice, to  determine if any items qualify for the exemption. The following examples  illustrate the way these charges should be handled. (A) A customer orders a jacket for $95. The shipping  charge to deliver the jacket to the customer is $5.00. The sales price  of the jacket is $100. Tax is due on the full sales price. (B) A customer orders a suit for $285 and a shirt for  $95. The charge to deliver the items is $15. The $15 shipping charge  must be proportionately and separately allocated between the items:  $285 / $380 = 75%; therefore, 75% of the $15 shipping charge, or $11.25,  must be allocated to the suit, and separately identified on the invoice  as such. The remaining 25% of the $15 shipping charge, or $3.75, must  be allocated to the shirt, and separately identified on the invoice  as such. The sales price of the shirt is $95 plus $3.75, which totals  $98.75; therefore, the shirt qualifies for the exemption. (C) A customer orders a suit for $285 and a shirt for  $95. The charge to deliver the items is $20. The $20 shipping charge  must be proportionately and separately allocated between the items:  $285 / $380 = 75%; therefore, 75% of the $20 shipping charge, or $15,  must be allocated to the suit, and separately identified on the invoice  as such. The remaining 25% of the $20 shipping charge, or $5.00, must  be allocated to the shirt, and separately identified on the invoice  as such. The sales price of the shirt is $95 plus $5.00, which totals  $100; because the sales price of the shirt exceeds $99.99, the purchase  of the shirt is taxable. (2) If the shipping and handling charge is a flat rate  per package and the amount charged is the same regardless of how many  items are included in the package, for purposes of this exemption  the total charge may be attributed to one of the items in the package  rather than proportionately and separately allocated between the items.  For example, a customer orders five shirts, with four priced at $98  and one at $85. The retailer charges $10 for shipping and handling  the order. The retailer would have charged the same amount for shipping  and handling whether the customer ordered one shirt or five shirts.  The retailer may choose to attribute the $10 shipping and handling  charge to the shirt that was sold for $85 rather than allocate the  charge proportionately and separately between the shirts. If the charge  is attributed to the $85 shirt, the sales price of that shirt is $95,  and all of the shirts will qualify for the exemption. (o) Documenting exempt sales. (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of  this subsection, a retailer is not required to obtain an exemption  certificate on sales of eligible items during the exemption period;  however, the retailer\'s records should clearly identify the type of  item sold, the date on which the item was sold, and the sales price  of the item. (2) A retailer who sells more than 10 backpacks to  a customer at the same time must obtain an exemption certificate from  the customer verifying that the backpacks are being purchased for  use by elementary or secondary school students. (3) If the purchaser is buying the school supplies  under a business account, the retailer must obtain an exemption certificate  from the purchaser certifying that the items are purchased for use  by an elementary or secondary school student. ""Under a business account""  means the purchaser is using a business credit card or business check  rather than a personal credit card or personal check; is being billed  under a business account maintained at the retailer; or is using a  business membership at a retailer that is membership based. (p) Reporting exempt sales. No special reporting procedures  are necessary to report exempt sales made during the exemption period.  Sales should be reported as currently required by law."
78|§3.366|Internet Access Services|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=366|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in  this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly  indicates otherwise. (1) Internet--collectively the myriad of computer and telecommunications  facilities, including equipment and operating software, that comprise the  interconnected worldwide network of networks that employ the Transmission  Control Protocol / Internet Protocol, or any predecessor or successor protocols  to the protocol, to communicate information of all kinds by wire or radio.  (2) Internet access service--a service that enables users to  access content, information, electronic mail, or other services offered over  the Internet and may also include access to proprietary content, information,  and other services as part of a package of services offered to consumers.  The term does not include telecommunications services or other taxable services,  unless these services are provided in conjunction with and are merely incidental  to the provision of Internet access service. For example: Basic Internet access  service includes the ability to access general information (an information  service) and/or the ability to send information or messages via e-mail (a  telecommunication service). These services are incidental to the provision  of Internet access services and, unless separately stated, are considered  part of the Internet access service. On the other hand, a person selling information  services using the Internet, such as a company selling stock market prices,  is not providing an Internet access service and must collect tax on the charge  for its information service. (b) Amount subject to tax. The sale, use, or other consumption  in this state of Internet access service is exempt from sales or use tax in  an amount not to exceed the first $25 of a monthly charge. This exemption  applies to the total sales price the service provider charges a purchaser  for Internet access, without regard to whether the service provider charges  one lump-sum amount or separately bills the purchaser for each user. For example:  Company A buys Internet access for 25 employees at several locations. The  first $25 of the total charge to Company A is exempt and not the first $25  of each user's apportioned cost. Because a ""purchaser"" is a single entity  and the $25 exemption is provided per purchaser, not user, account, or site,  separate billings for employees or for different locations will not reduce  the taxable amount. This exemption applies without regard to: (1) whether the Internet access service is bundled with another  service, including any other taxable service; or (2) the billing period used by the service provider. Example:  An Internet access service is provided for a set fee of $99 per year. The  fee will qualify in its entirety for exemption because the monthly charge  is less than $25. The exemption applies to services performed on or after  October 1, 1999. The exemption does not apply to services performed before  the effective date and billed or paid for after the effective date of the  exemption. (c) Hold permits. All providers of Internet access services  must obtain a Texas sales and use tax permit and collect tax on the total  amount subject to tax as provided in subsection (b) of this section, or accept  a properly completed resale, exemption, or direct payment permit exemption  certificate in lieu of collecting tax. See §3.285 of this title (relating  to Resale Certificate; Sales for Resale); §3.287 of this title (relating  to Exemption Certificates); and §3.288 of this title (relating to Direct  Payment Procedures and Qualifications). (d) Resale certificates. (1) Providers of Internet access services may issue resale  certificates in lieu of tax to suppliers of tangible personal property only  if care, custody, and control of the property is transferred to the customers.  For example, a service provider purchases diskettes to transfer software to  customers. The service provider may purchase the diskettes tax free by issuing  a resale certificate. However, promotional diskettes provided to potential  customers are not resold and are taxable. (2) An entity that markets Internet access services for others  and gives away, or sells for a nominal amount (less than 25%), computer-related  equipment as an inducement to sign an Internet service contract is considered  the consumer of the equipment and must pay tax on its acquisition cost of  the equipment. An entity that markets Internet access services for others  and also sells related equipment for 25% or more of acquisition cost is a  retailer of the equipment. The entity may buy the transferred equipment tax  free for resale and collect tax on its charge to its customers. For example,  Company A markets Internet access services provided by Company B. Company  A purchases computers for $400 that it offers to customers for free when a  customer signs a contract for Internet access service with Company B. Company  A is the consumer of the computer and owes tax when it purchases the computer.  If Company A sells the computer to its customer for $100 or more (25% or more  of cost), Company A may purchase the computer tax free for resale but must  collect tax from its customer on the sales price of the computer ($100). If  Company A sells the computer for less than $100 under the condition that the  customer will purchase Internet access service from Company B, the nominal  amount paid by the customer is not taxable and Company A must pay tax on the  original purchase price of the equipment. (3) A resale certificate may be issued for a service if the  buyer intends to transfer the service as an integral part of taxable services.  A service will be considered an integral part of a taxable service if the  service purchased is essential to the performance of the taxable service and  without which the taxable service could not be rendered. For example, a provider  of Internet access service may purchase tax free for resale telecommunication  services used to provide the Internet access services. (e) Service benefit location. If both the Internet access service  provider and the customer are located in Texas, Texas tax is due. (f) Service benefit location - multi-state customer. (1) To the extent Internet access service is provided to and  accessed by a multi-state customer with users both within and outside of Texas,  the service is presumed to be used at the location from which the Internet  is accessed. The service is not taxable to the extent it is used outside Texas.  A multi-state customer may use any reasonable method for allocation that is  supported by business records. (2) A multi-state customer purchasing Internet access services  for the benefit of both in-state and out-of-state locations is responsible  for issuing to the Internet access service provider an exemption certificate  asserting a multi-state benefit, and for reporting and paying the tax on that  portion of the Internet access charge that will benefit the Texas location.  An Internet access service provider that accepts such a certificate in good  faith is relieved of responsibility for collecting and remitting tax on transactions  to which the certificate relates. (g) Local taxes. (1) For local sales tax purposes, city, county, transit authority,  and/or special purpose district sales taxes are due if the Internet access  service provider has only one place of business (the location from which the  provider accepts orders for Internet service) within the boundaries of a local  taxing entity. Local sales tax must be collected based upon the tax rate at  that location, except that no transit authority sales tax is due on services  provided to a location outside the boundaries of the transit area. In the  case of multiple locations, if an order for Internet service is taken at one  location but the service is provided from another location from which customers  may order service, the place of business from which the service is provided  will determine to which local taxing entity the tax is allocated. (2) For the purposes of the local use tax, if a place of business  is outside the boundaries of a local taxing entity, the Internet access service  provider will be required to collect local use tax if the client is within  the local taxing entity and the service provider has representation in the  local taxing entity as outlined in §3.286 of this title (relating to  Seller's and Purchaser's Responsibilities). Even if the service provider is  not required to collect local use tax, the client is still liable for the  tax if the service is received or a benefit is derived from the service within  the boundaries of a local taxing entity. (3) An in-state customer purchasing Internet access services  for the benefit of locations in more than one local taxing entity is responsible  for issuing to the Internet access service provider an exemption certificate  claiming a multi-city benefit and for determining the extent of benefit for  each entity. The local use tax for each entity must be reported, allocated,  and paid by the customer. An Internet access service provider that accepts  in good faith an exemption certificate claiming a multi-city benefit is relieved  of responsibility for collecting and remitting local tax on transactions to  which the certificate relates. (h) Use tax. If a provider of an Internet access service is  not engaged in business in Texas or in a specific local taxing jurisdiction  and is not required to collect Texas tax, it is the Texas customer's responsibility  to report and pay the state and local use tax directly to this office."
79|§3.367|Timber Items (Tax Code, §151.3162 and §151.317)|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=367|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Equipment--An apparatus, device, hand tool, simple machine, or expendable supply item. Examples include axes, handsaws, ropes, tree measurement devices, harnesses for tree climbing, eye protection goggles, ear protection devices, components of above-ground sprinkler systems or underground sprinkler systems, boards or mats used for access to commercial timber sites, and expendable supplies such as lubricants, solvents, and rags. The term ""equipment"" includes repair, replacement parts, and accessories for equipment. A computer or software program may qualify, if it is used exclusively in the production of timber. For example, a computer used exclusively to measure or track the growth of the trees to determine harvest time is a timber item. However, computers and software used in business accounting, bookkeeping, word processing, preparation of payrolls and employee evaluations, or other non-production activities are not timber items. The term does not include furniture, office supplies, or office equipment. (2) Machinery--A powered-operated machine. Examples include chain saws, chippers, machinery used to drill holes for planting, machinery used to fertilize, harvesters, slashers, merchandisers including total merchandising systems, debarkers, delimbers, grapples, log stackers, feller bunchers, loaders including knuckleboom loaders, skidders, tractors, bulldozers, welding machines, compressors, and generators. The term ""machinery"" includes repair, replacement parts, and accessories for machinery. The term does not include motor vehicles or repair, replacement parts, or accessories for motor vehicles except for motor vehicles that qualify as timber machines and timber trailers. (3) Original producer--a person who: (A) harvests timber that the person owns and continues to own until the timber is processed, packed, or marketed; or (B) is the grower of the timber, exercises predominant operational control over the growth of the timber, and bears the risk of loss of investment in the timber. (4) Pollution control equipment--Machinery and equipment that are used by an original producer to control pollution that results from the processing, packing, or marketing of timber products by the original producer. (5) Production of timber--Activities to prepare the production site or to plant, cultivate, or harvest commercial timber that will be sold in the regular course of business. The term includes construction, repair, and maintenance of private roads and lanes exclusively used for access to commercial timber sites. Activities at a harvest site to cut down commercial timber, debark, delimb, chip, slash, and to prepare and load harvested timber qualify as the production of timber but are not manufacturing operations as described in subsection (f) of this section. The use of a timber trailer to haul the harvested logs or chips from the harvest site for delivery to a saw mill also qualifies as the production of timber. Transportation of timber products from a location other than a commercial timber harvest site does not qualify. (6) Timber machine--A self-propelled motor vehicle specially adapted to perform a specialized function for use primarily in timber operations. Timber machine does not include any self-propelled motor vehicle specifically designed or adapted for the primary purpose of transporting timber or timber products including a self-propelled motor vehicle designed to transport cargo and adapted with a cargo loading device. For information concerning the exemption of a timber machine from motor vehicle sales tax under Chapter 152 of the Tax Code, see §3.72 of this title (relating to Farm Machines, Timber Machines and Trailers). (7) Timber trailer--A trailer or semitrailer designed for and used primarily in a timber operation. For information concerning the exemption of a timber trailer from motor vehicle sales tax under Chapter 152 of the Tax Code, see §3.72 of this title (relating to Farm Machines, Timber Machines and Trailers). (b) Qualifying items. Persons may claim a partial refund or credit for Texas sales or use taxes paid on purchases of the following items: (1) seedlings of trees commonly grown for commercial timber. Examples of trees commonly grown for commercial timber include hardwood or pine trees; (2) defoliants, desiccants, fertilizers, fungicides, herbicides, and insecticides that are exclusively used in the production of timber for sale; (3) machinery or equipment that is exclusively used in the production of timber for sale, including accessories, repair or replacement parts, and lubricants for the machinery or equipment; (4) tangible personal property sold or used as a component of an underground irrigation system that is exclusively used in the production of timber for sale. For example, a contractor who has a lump-sum contract to install an underground irrigation system as an improvement to realty is the consumer of the incorporated materials and must pay sales tax on purchases. As authorized by Tax Code, §151.3162(b)(2), the contractor may request a partial refund or credit for tax that the contractor paid on the qualifying components of the irrigation system. For further information on contracts to improve real property, see §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors); and (5) machinery or equipment, including pollution control equipment, that the original producer uses to process, pack, or market timber product, if the machinery or equipment meets the requirements enumerated in subsection (d)(1) of this section. Examples of eligible machinery and equipment include stacking sticks used to dry the lumber, forklifts, and conveyors. (c) Partial refund or credit for sales or use tax paid on qualifying items. A person who, during the period beginning October 1, 2001, and ending December 31, 2007, pays Texas sales or use tax on the purchase, lease, or rental of a qualifying item as set out in subsection (b) of this section may either request a partial refund of the tax directly from the comptroller or take a credit on a sales tax return for a portion of the tax. The amount of the partial refund or credit is determined by the date that the qualifying item is purchased, leased, or rented, as provided in paragraphs (1) - (3) of this subsection. At the time of the purchase, lease, or rental, the purchaser must pay sales or use tax to the retailer and may not issue an exemption certificate to the retailer. A purchaser must accrue and pay use tax to the comptroller on qualifying items purchased out-of-state for use in Texas (see §3.346, concerning Use Tax). The purchaser may take the partial credit on the sales and use tax return when the purchaser reports and pays the tax to the comptroller. The amount of credit will be determined by the date on which the purchaser brings the qualifying items into this state. (1) If a qualifying item is purchased, leased, or rented from October 1, 2001 through December 31, 2003, then the purchaser is entitled to a refund or credit in an amount equal to 33% of the tax paid on the item. (2) If a qualifying item is purchased, leased, or rented from January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2005, then the purchaser is entitled to a refund or credit in an amount equal to 50% of the tax paid on the item. (3) If a qualifying item is purchased, leased or rented from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2007, then the purchaser is entitled to a refund or credit in an amount equal to 75% of the tax paid on the item. (4) A purchaser may seek a refund or take a credit for tax paid on exempt timber items within the following limitations: (A) A purchaser who elects to take a credit must claim the credit on a sales or use tax return for a report period that ends not later than the first anniversary of the date that the timber item was purchased, leased, or rented. For example, a quarterly filer who purchases and pays tax on a qualifying item on October 2, 2001, may take the 33% credit on any quarterly return up to and including the return for the quarter that ends September 30, 2002. (B) A purchaser who elects to claim a refund directly from the comptroller must submit a written claim not later than December 31 of the calendar year immediately following the year in which the tax was paid. For example, a purchaser who purchases a timber item and pays tax on October 2, 2001, must submit a refund claim for 33% of tax paid by December 31, 2002. (C) A purchaser who fails to take a credit on a return before the expiration of the limitation period provided in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph may still request a refund directly from the comptroller within the limitation period provided in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph. (5) Interest. Sales or use taxes paid on timber items that are purchased, leased, or rented from October 1, 2001 through December 31, 2007, are not taxes paid in error, and no interest under Tax Code, §111.064, is due on partial refunds or credits taken on timber items. (6) Taxable services. Sales or use taxes paid on maintenance, repair, or remodeling performed on qualifying machinery or equipment from October 1, 2001 through December 31, 2007, are not eligible for the partial refund or credit. A purchaser may claim a partial refund or take a credit for tax paid on separately stated charges for parts, accessories, and lubricants for qualifying machinery or equipment. (7) Rentals and Leases. The amount of partial refund or credit will be determined by the date on which the lessee takes possession of the items. The lessee may not claim a refund or take credit until tax has been paid. The limitations in which the refund or credit must be claimed or taken, as provided in paragraph (4) of this subsection, are based on the date the lessee paid tax. (d) Original producer. (1) The original producer may qualify for the partial refund or credit only if: (A) the processing, packing, or marketing occurs at or from a location operated by the original producer; (B) at least 50% of the value of the timber products processed, packed, or marketed at or from the location during the most recent calendar year is attributable to products produced by the original producer and not purchased or acquired from others; and (C) the original producer does not for consideration process, pack, or market timber products that belong to others, unless the value of the product that belongs to another person is 5.0% or less of the total value of the timber products processed, packed, or marketed by the original producer. (2) Two or more corporations that operate timber activities on the same or adjacent tracts of land and that are entirely owned by the same individual or a combination of the individual, the individual\'s spouse, and the individual\'s children may qualify as an original producer for the purposes of this paragraph. (e) Exemption for timber items. After December 31, 2007, the purchase, lease, or rental of timber items will be exempt from sales or use tax, and a purchaser may issue a retailer a properly completed exemption certificate in lieu of paying tax on qualifying items that are purchased, leased, or rented after December 31, 2007. After December 31, 2007, taxable services performed on qualifying items will be exempt under Tax Code, §151.3111. (f) Exemption for off-road, heavy-duty diesel equipment. A person who uses off-road heavy-duty diesel equipment in timber operations may claim an exemption from the Texas Emissions Reduction Plan Surcharge imposed by Tax Code §151.0515 provided the equipment is exclusively used in the production of timber for sale. (g) Manufacturing. A person who processes or fabricates tangible personal property to be sold is a manufacturer and may be entitled to manufacturing exemptions provided by Tax Code, §151.318. See §3.300 of this title (relating to Manufacturing; Custom Manufacturing; Fabricating; Processing) for information on tax exemptions for equipment and supplies used in manufacturing. For information regarding wrapping and packaging supplies purchased by manufacturers, see §3.314 of this title (relating to Wrapping, Packing, Packaging Supplies, Containers, Labels, Tags, Export Packers, and Stevedoring Materials and Suppliers). (h) Gas and electricity exemption. Effective October 1, 2001, natural gas and electricity used in timber operations are exempt from sales and use taxes. See §3.295 of this title (relating to Natural Gas and Electricity) for further information regarding the exemption of natural gas and electricity. (i) Buildings. Buildings, structural components of buildings, and/or the materials used to build, construct, or fabricate buildings are not timber items and are taxable. (1) Buildings include any structures or edifices enclosing a space within their walls, and usually are covered by a roof, the purpose of which may be to provide storage, shelter, or housing, or to provide work, office, or sales space. Examples of buildings include residential quarters, offices, storage facilities, and warehouses. (2) A building or structure that is essentially an item of equipment or machinery necessary for timber production may be considered timber equipment if it is specifically designed for such use and cannot be economically used for any other purpose. For example, a commercial greenhouse is timber equipment if it is used to grow seedlings of trees commonly grown for commercial timber. Cont\'d...', '(3) Pollution control equipment and machinery or equipment used in processing, packing, or marketing by an original producer, may qualify even if the machinery and equipment are affixed to real property. For a timber producer to qualify for sales tax refunds or credits on qualifying items that are installed under a contract to improve real property, the timber producer must enter into a separated contract. Additionally, the contract must separately state the charges for the qualifying items from the charges for other tangible personal property. See §3.291 of this title (relating to Contractors) for information regarding new construction contracts. See §3.357 of this title (relating to Nonresidential Real Property Repair, Remodeling, and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance) for information regarding nonresidential real property repair, remodeling, or restoration. (j) Repeal of previous exemption. Effective October 1, 2001, the exemption in Tax Code, §151.3161, that took effect on October 1, 1995, is repealed. That provision allowed a tax exemption for the first $50,000 of the purchase price of each complete unit of machinery or equipment used exclusively in a commercial timber operation to prepare the site, plant, cultivate, or to harvest timber in the regular course of business."
80|§3.369|Sales Tax Holiday--Certain Energy Star Products, Certain Water-Conserving Products, and WaterSense Products|https://texreg.sos.state.tx.us/public/readtac$ext.TacPage?sl=R&app=9&p_dir=&p_rloc=&p_tloc=&p_ploc=&pg=1&p_tac=&ti=34&pt=1&ch=3&rl=369|"(a) Definitions. The following words and terms, when  used in this section, shall have the following meanings, unless the  context clearly indicates otherwise. (1) Energy-efficient product--A product that has been  designated as an Energy Star qualified product under the Energy Star  program jointly operated by the United States Environmental Protection  Agency and the United States Department of Energy and that is an:  (A) air conditioner priced at $6,000 or less (room  and central units); (B) clothes washer; (C) ceiling fan; (D) dehumidifier; (E) dishwasher; (F) incandescent or fluorescent light bulb;  (G) programmable thermostat; or  (H) refrigerator (including a mini-fridge) priced at  $2,000 or less. (2) Exchange--The act of giving or taking one thing  in return for another. (3) Exemption period--The period beginning at 12:01  a.m. on the Saturday preceding the last Monday in May (Memorial Day)  and ending at 11:59 p.m. on the last Monday in May. (4) Layaway sales--A transaction in which merchandise  is set aside for future delivery to a person who makes a deposit,  agrees to pay the balance of the purchase price over a period of time,  and, at the end of the payment period, receives the merchandise. (5) Qualifying products--Energy-efficient, water-conserving,  and WaterSense products eligible for exemption from sales and use  tax if purchased, leased, or rented during the exemption period. (6) Rain check--A document assuring that a person can  take advantage of a sale or special offer made by a seller at a later  time if the item offered is not available.  (7) Water-conserving product--  (A) tangible personal property that is used on residential  property and is not used for business or trade, and when used or planted  in an outdoor residential property, may result in:  (i) water conservation or groundwater retention;  (ii) water table recharge; or  (iii) a decrease in ambient air temperature that limits  water evaporation.  (B) Examples of water-conserving products include:  (i) a soaker or drip-irrigation hose;  (ii) a moisture control for a sprinkler or irrigation  system;  (iii) mulch;  (iv) a rain barrel or an alternative rain and moisture  collection system;  (v) a permeable ground cover surface that allows water  to reach underground basins, aquifers, or water collection points;  (vi) grasses, plants, shrubs, and trees; and  (vii) water-saving surfactants designed to help water  penetrate the soil. (C) Products purchased by a business, including an  apartment complex or nursing home, are used for business or trade  and are not water-conserving products.  (D) Products that are incorporated into real property  under a lump-sum contract are used for business or trade by the person  improving the real property and are not water-conserving products.  (8) WaterSense product--A product that has been designated  as a WaterSense certified product under the WaterSense program operated  by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or a similar  successor program. (b) Exempt sales. (1) Sales or use tax is not due on the sale of a qualifying  product if the sale takes place during the exemption period. (2) There is no limit to the number of qualifying products  one can purchase exempt from sales tax during the exemption period. (3) The exemption applies to each qualifying product  sold during the exemption period, regardless of how many qualifying  products are sold on the same invoice to a person. For example, if  a person purchases two refrigerators for $1,800 each, then both refrigerators  qualify for the exemption, even though the person\'s total purchase  price ($3,600) exceeds $2,000. (4) Qualifying products may be rented or leased tax-free,  including under a ""rent to own"" contract, if the rental or lease contract  is executed during the exemption period. The exemption applies only  to the specified rental or lease period designated by the contract.  Extensions or renewals of rental or lease contracts do not qualify  for the exemption unless executed during the exemption period. (c) Taxable sales. The exemption under this section  does not apply to: (1) products designated as Energy Star products under  the Energy Star program that are not specifically identified in subsection  (a)(1) of this section; (2) products that may conserve water but that do not  meet the definition of a water-conserving product provided in subsection  (a)(7) of this section; (3) repair or replacement parts for qualifying products  that are used to repair or remodel products already owned by a person  and that do not otherwise qualify for exemption. For example, an individual  may own a central air conditioner with a faulty compressor. The individual  cannot obtain the exemption on the purchase of a new Energy Star qualified  compressor; (4) an Energy Star qualified air conditioner that sells  for more than $6,000. For example, if a person purchases an Energy  Star qualified air conditioner that costs $6,055, then sales tax is  due on the entire $6,055; (5) an Energy Star qualified refrigerator that sells  for more than $2,000. For example, if a customer purchases an Energy  Star qualified refrigerator that costs $2,055, then sales tax is due  on the entire $2,055; (6) system components sold individually. Qualifying  products must be sold as a unit in order to qualify for the exemption.  The components cannot be priced separately and sold as individual  items in order to obtain the exemption. For example, central air conditioners  must be priced at $6,000 or less and sold as a unit in order to qualify  for the exemption. If an Energy Star qualified central air conditioner  sells for $7,000, the entire $7,000 charge is subject to tax and cannot  be split into separate charges for a compressor, metering device,  evaporator coil and blower in order to qualify for the exemption;  and (7) disposal fees charged for the removal of old appliances.  Disposal or ""haul away"" fees charged for the removal of an old appliance  are taxable as a waste removal service. (d) Sales of pre-packaged combinations containing both  exempt and taxable items. (1) When a qualifying product is sold together with  taxable merchandise in a pre-packaged combination or single unit,  the full price is subject to sales tax unless the price of the qualifying  product is separately stated. For example, a clothes washer and clothes  dryer sold as a ""set"" for a single price is taxable if the washer  and dryer are separate appliances. A separately stated charge for  the Energy Star rated washing machine is eligible for the sales tax  exemption during the holiday period. Tax is due on the dryer. An Energy  Star rated combination washer and dryer unit that is designed to be  sold as a single unit and that cannot be sold separately will, however,  qualify for the exemption. (2) When a qualifying product is sold in a pre-packaged  combination that also contains a taxable item as a free gift, and  no additional charge is made for the gift, the qualifying product  may qualify for the exemption under this section. For example, the  sale of a dishwasher may include a free bottle of rinse aid. If the  price of the set is the same as the price of the dishwasher sold separately,  the product that is being sold is the dishwasher, which is exempt  from tax if sold during the exemption period. Note: When a retailer  gives a taxable item away free of charge, the retailer owes sales  or use tax on the purchase price that the retailer paid for the item.  See §3.301 of this title (relating to Promotional Plans, Coupons,  Retailer Reimbursement). (e) Delivery charges. (1) Air conditioners and refrigerators. Delivery charges  that are billed by the seller to the purchaser are included as part  of the total sales price of a qualifying product, regardless of whether  the charges are separately stated, and as such must be considered  when determining whether air conditioners and refrigerators qualify  for the exemption. The addition of delivery charges to the retail  price of a refrigerator or air conditioner will cause the loss of  the exemption if the total price exceeds the applicable cap. For example,  assume a person purchases an Energy Star qualified refrigerator priced  at $1,985. The charge to deliver the refrigerator is $25, causing  the total sales price to be $2,010. Since the total sales price of  the refrigerator exceeds $2,000, the refrigerator does not qualify  for the exemption, and tax is due on the total sales price of $2,010. (2) Items other than air conditioners and refrigerators.  Delivery charges that are billed by the seller to the purchaser are  exempt if the product sold is exempt. For example, delivery fees billed  in connection with the sale of a qualifying energy-efficient dishwasher  during the exemption period are exempt. (3) ""Per item"" delivery fees. Delivery charges billed  on a ""per item"" basis must be properly allocated when a delivery to  the same person contains both exempt and taxable items. Except as  provided in paragraph (4) of this subsection, if multiple items are  shipped on a single invoice, the delivery charges must be allocated  to each item ordered and separately identified on the invoice. For  example, assume that a person purchases a qualifying clothes washer  tax-free during the exemption period. The same person also purchases  a clothes dryer, which does not qualify for the exemption. The retailer  charges the person an additional fee of $25 per appliance for delivery.  The $25 delivery fee connected to the delivery of the qualifying clothes  washer is exempt from sales tax, but the $25 fee connected to the  delivery of the clothes dryer is subject to tax. (4) ""Flat rate"" delivery fees. If the delivery charge  is a flat rate per delivery address, and the amount charged is the  same regardless of how many items are included in the delivery, for  purposes of the exemption, the total charge may be attributed to one  of the items in the delivery rather than proportionately allocated  between the items. The delivery fee can be allocated to either an  exempt qualifying product or a taxable product. The following examples  illustrate the way these charges should be handled. (A) Delivery fee allocated to exempt item. Assume a  seller charges a flat fee of $50 per customer address for delivery  regardless of the number of items delivered to that address and during  the exemption period, a person purchases an Energy Star qualified  refrigerator priced at $1,900, a taxable stove and a taxable microwave.  The seller may attribute the $50 delivery charge to the sale of the  refrigerator bringing the sales price of the refrigerator to $1,950.  The refrigerator sales price does not exceed $2,000, so it still qualifies  for the exemption. The seller does not have to allocate the delivery  charge between the refrigerator, stove and microwave. The sales invoice  must clearly identify that the delivery charge was attributed to the  exempt item and must separately state the tax due on the taxable items. (B) Delivery fee allocated to taxable item. Assume  a seller charges a flat fee of $50 per customer address for delivery  regardless of the number of items delivered to that address and during  the exemption period, a person purchases an Energy Star qualified  refrigerator priced at $1,975 and a taxable stove. The seller may  attribute the entire $50 delivery charge to the sale of the stove,  thus allowing the total sales price of the refrigerator to remain  $1,975. Since the refrigerator sales price does not exceed $2,000  it still qualifies for the exemption. The seller does not have to  allocate the delivery charge between the refrigerator and stove. The  sales invoice must clearly identify that the delivery charge was attributed  to the taxable stove and must separately state the tax due on the  taxable item. (f) Installation charges. A charge for the installation  of a qualifying product purchased during the exemption period qualifies  for exemption only if the item remains tangible personal property  after installation. If the product becomes real property after installation,  the charge for installation labor may be taxable or nontaxable depending  on whether the product is installed in residential or nonresidential  property or as part of a new construction contract. (1) Tangible personal property. Products that are free-standing  or mobile, such as clothes washers, dehumidifiers, refrigerators,  portable dishwashers and window or room air conditioning units are  tangible personal property. If qualifying tangible personal property  retains its identity as tangible personal property after installation,  the installation charge billed by the seller of the item becomes part  of the sales price of the item. As part of the sales price, an installation  charge billed by the seller qualifies for the exemption, even if the  installation is performed after the exemption period. If however,  the charge for installation of an Energy Star qualified refrigerator,  which remains tangible personal property after installation, causes  the total sales price to exceed $2,000, the entire charge of the refrigerator,  delivery and installation, is taxable. Cont\'d...', '(2) Improvements to real property. Items such as programmable  thermostats, central air conditioning units, ceiling fans and built-in  refrigerators and dishwashers that are plumbed, wired or otherwise  permanently attached to a building structure are improvements to real  property. For items that become improvements to real property, the  taxability of the installation labor is determined by the type of  jobsite: residential, new construction or nonresidential repair or  remodeling. (A) Residential and new construction. No tax is due  on charges for labor to install items such as ceiling fans, programmable  thermostats or central air conditioning units in residential property  or during a new construction project. See §3.291 of this title  (relating to Contractors). (B) Nonresidential repair and remodeling. Nonresidential  repair and remodeling is a taxable service. Therefore, tax is due  on charges for labor to install ceiling fans, built-in appliances,  programmable thermostats and central air conditioning units in existing  nonresidential real property, regardless of when the installation  is performed. Charges for installation labor performed on existing  nonresidential real property should be separately stated on the invoice  from the sales price of qualifying energy-efficient or WaterSense  products. Separately stated charges for products that may conserve  water but that are not water-conserving products because they are  installed in nonresidential real property are taxable. A lump sum  charge for the purchase of a qualifying product and installation labor  is subject to tax as the purchase of nonresidential repair and remodeling.  See §3.357 of this title (relating to Nonresidential Real Property  Repair, Remodeling, and Restoration; Real Property Maintenance). (g) Purchases by real estate developers, dealers, service  providers and contractors. Real estate developers, dealers, service  providers and contractors may purchase qualifying products tax-free  during the sales tax holiday as discussed in this subsection. (1) An exemption or resale certificate is not required  for purchases of energy-efficient or WaterSense products.  (2) A resale certificate must be provided for purchases  of water-conserving products that will be subsequently resold to customers  or incorporated into customers\' real property under a separated contract.  (3) An exemption certificate or resale certificate  may not be provided for purchases of products that may conserve water  but will be incorporated into real property under a lump-sum contract.  (4) There is no limit to the number of qualifying products  a person may purchase tax-free during the exemption period. (5) Held in inventory. Qualifying products purchased  tax-free during the exemption period may be held in inventory until  ready for use as discussed in this subsection. (A) No use tax is due if an energy-efficient product  or WaterSense product purchased tax free during the exemption period  by a contractor, developer, etc., is subsequently incorporated into  the realty of a contractor\'s customer under a lump sum contract for  new construction or residential repair and remodeling. See §3.291  of this title. Use tax is due on products that may conserve water  but do not meet the definition of water-conserving products provided  in subsection (a)(7) of this section because the products were incorporated  into real property under a lump sum contract. (B) Sales tax is due on sales of energy-efficient or  WaterSense products transferred to customers as part of a nonresidential  repair and remodeling contract preformed after the exemption period.  Nonresidential repair and remodeling service providers are responsible  for collecting sales tax from customers on sales of energy-efficient  or WaterSense products under a separated contract or under a lump  sum contract for nonresidential repair and remodeling, unless the  transaction (the sale of the energy-efficient or WaterSense product)  between the customer and service provider, dealer or contractor occurs  during the exemption period under a separated contract. See §3.357  of this title. (h) Discounts and coupons. An Energy Star qualified  air conditioner must be priced at $6,000 or less in order to qualify  for the exemption. An Energy Star qualified refrigerator must be priced  at $2,000 or less to qualify for the exemption. A seller may offer  a discount or a coupon that reduces the sales price of an Energy Star  qualified air conditioner or refrigerator. A discount or a coupon  affects the application of the exemption as explained in paragraphs  (1) and (2) of this subsection. The total sales price of the product  includes delivery and installation charges as explained in subsections  (e) and (f) of this section. See §3.301 of this title. (1) Discounts. If a discount reduces the sales price  of an Energy Star qualified air conditioner to $6,000 or less, or  reduces the sales price of an Energy Star qualified refrigerator to  $2,000 or less, the air conditioner or refrigerator qualifies for  the exemption under this section. For example, a person buys an Energy  Star qualified free-standing refrigerator that has a sales price of  $2,050, including shipping, handling and installation of tangible  personal property, from a seller who offers a 10% discount. After  application of the 10% discount, the final sales price of the refrigerator  is $1,845. The refrigerator is exempt because its sales price does  not exceed $2,000. (2) Coupons. When sellers accept a manufacture\'s or  other coupon as a part of the sales price of any taxable item, the  value of the coupon reduces the sales price, the same as a cash discount,  regardless of whether the retailer is reimbursed for the amount that  the coupon represents. Therefore, a coupon can be used to reduce the  sales price of an Energy Star qualified air conditioner to $6,000  or less, or to reduce the sales price of an Energy Star qualified  refrigerator to $2,000 or less. The item then qualifies for exemption  under this section. For example, a person buys an Energy Star qualified  free-standing refrigerator that has a sales price of $2,050, including  shipping, handling and installation of tangible personal property,  with a coupon worth $100. After application of the $100 coupon, the  sales price of the refrigerator is $1,950. The refrigerator is exempt  because its sales price does not exceed $2,000. (i) Rebates. (1) Rebates given at the time of sale. Rebates provided  by a seller are cash discounts when given at the time of sale and  as such are excludable from the tax base. The rebate, like a discount  when taken at the time of the sale, is a reduction in the amount subject  to tax. (2) Rebates that occur after the sale. Rebates that  are paid to a purchaser after the exemption period do not affect the  sales price of an item purchased for purposes of determining whether  an item qualifies for exemption under this section. The full amount  of the sales price, before the rebate, is used to determine whether  the exemption applies. For example, if a person purchases an Energy  Star qualified air conditioner for $6,050 and receives a $300 mail-in  rebate from the manufacturer, the seller must collect tax on the $6,050  sales price of the air conditioner. (j) Layaway sales and purchases by means other than  in person.  (1) the sale of an energy-efficient product, WaterSense  product, or water-conserving product under a layaway plan or purchased  by mail, telephone, email, internet, custom order, or any other means  other than in person qualifies for exemption when: (A) the purchaser places the item on layaway during  the exemption period and the seller accepts the order for immediate  delivery upon full payment, even if delivery is made after the exemption  period;  (B) the purchaser places the order and the seller accepts  the order during the exemption period for immediate shipment, even  if delivery is made after the exemption period; or  (C) final payment on a layaway order is made by, and  the merchandise is given to, the purchaser during the exemption period.  (2) For purposes of this subsection, the seller accepts  an order when the seller has taken action to fill the order for immediate  shipment. Actions to fill an order include placement of an ""in date""  stamp on a mail order, or assignment of an ""order number"" to a telephone  order. An order is for immediate shipment notwithstanding that the  shipment may be delayed because of a backlog of orders or because  stock is currently unavailable to, or on back order by, the seller. (k) Rain checks. Qualifying products that are purchased  during the exemption period with use of a rain check qualify for the  exemption regardless of when the rain check was issued. However, issuance  of a rain check during the exemption period will not cause the purchase  of a qualifying product to be exempt if the item is actually purchased  after the exemption period. (l) Exchanges. (1) If a person purchases a qualifying product during  the exemption period, and, after the exemption period has ended, exchanges  the item for a qualifying product of equal or lesser value, no additional  tax is due. For example, a person purchases a $60 qualifying dehumidifier  during the exemption period. After the exemption period, the person  exchanges it for a $60 qualifying dehumidifier of a different brand.  Tax is not due on the $60 sales price of the new dehumidifier. (2) If a person purchases a qualifying product during  the exemption period, and after the exemption period has ended, exchanges  the product for a qualifying product of greater value, tax is due  on the difference between the prices of the two products. For example,  assume a person purchases a $60 qualifying dehumidifier during the  exemption period. After the exemption period, the person exchanges  it for $70 in qualifying light bulbs. Tax is due on the $10 difference  between the two sales prices. (3) If a person purchases a qualifying product during  the exemption period, and after the exemption period has ended, exchanges  the products for a nonqualifying item, tax is due on the original  sales price of the nonqualifying item. For example, assume a person  purchases a $60 qualifying dehumidifier during the exemption period.  After the exemption period, the person exchanges it for a $60 nonqualifying  microwave. Tax is due on the $60 sales price of the nonqualifying  microwave. (4) If a person purchases a qualifying product before  the exemption period, but, during the exemption period, returns the  product and receives credit on the purchase of a different qualifying  product, no sales tax is due on the sale of the new product if the  new item is purchased during the exemption period. For example, assume  a person purchases a $60 qualifying dehumidifier before the exemption  period. During the exemption period, the person returns the dehumidifier  and receives credit on the purchase of a $70 qualifying ceiling fan.  No tax is due on the sale of the ceiling fan if it is purchased during  the exemption period. (m) Returned merchandise. When a person returns an  item that would qualify for the exemption, no credit for or refund  of sales tax shall be given unless the person provides a receipt or  invoice that shows tax was paid, or the retailer has sufficient documentation  to show that tax was paid on the specific item. (n) Documenting exempt sales. (1) A seller is not required to obtain an exemption  certificate on sales of energy-efficient or WaterSense products during  the exemption period; however, the retailer\'s records should clearly  identify the type of item sold, the date on which the item was sold,  and the sales price of the item.  (2) A seller is not required to obtain an exemption  certificate on sales of items identified as examples of water-conserving  products in subsection (a)(7)(B) of this section; however, the retailer\'s  records should clearly identify the type of item sold, the date on  which the item was sold, and the sales price of the item. A seller  should obtain an exemption certificate on sales of items that do not  clearly meet the definition of a water-conserving product."
